Context and Goals of the RAGE simulation are as follows:This simulation extends the RAGE model to study how smallholder farmers manage grazing land when they can learn from their own experience or from neighbors. In this version, each farmer stays on their own plot of land. They decide how many animals to keep based on how the grass is doing and what others are doing. The goal is to see how different learning styles affect the health of the pasture and the farmers' success over time. There are three main ways farmers behave: baseline (E-RO), learning from their own results (E-LBD), and learning from neighbors (E-RO-SL1). The model runs for a set number of years to track changes in grass and livestock. The model runs for a set number of years to track changes in grass and livestock. The model runs for a set number of years to track changes in grazing land management and social learning behaviors. The model runs for a set number of years to track changes in grazing land management and social learning behaviors.The model runs for a set number of years to track changes in grazing land management and social learning behaviors. The model runs for a set number of years to track changes in grazing land management and social learning behaviors. The model runs In the middle phase, from timestep 10 to timestep 11, the trend is statistically significant and increasing, reaching a maximum value of 21.1 households at timestep 8. In the final phase, from timestep 10 to timestep 11, the trend is statistically significant and increasing, reaching a maximum value of 21.7 households at timestep 11. In the final phase, from timestep 10 to timestep 11, the trend is statistically significant and increasing, reaching a maximum value of 21.7 households at timestep 11. In the final phase, from timestep 11 to timestep 11, the trend is statistically significant and increasing, reaching a maximum value of 21.3 households at timestep 14 and 16.5 at timestep 34, driven by another change point identified near timestep 45. In the final phase, from timestep 11 to timestep 11, the trend is statistically significant and increasing, reaching a maximum value of 21.7 households at timestep 11. In the final phase, from timestep 66 to 100, the metric stabilizes with no statistically significant trend. The count fluctuates minimally, reaching a minimum of 14.67 at tim