the megafaunal hunting pressure model ( mhpm ) is an agent - based model designed to test hypotheses related to the extinction of megaherbivores. the model simulates a simplified grassland environment with human hunters and male and female ungulates. stop - at - max - ticks * * : determines whether the experiment stops when the maximum number of ticks is reached. stop - at - max - herd - size * * : determines whether the experiment stops when the maximum herd size is reached. the model allows users to manipulate these parameters to test various hypotheses related to extinction events. initially, the number of foragers is set at 20 and this value does not change over the entire duration of the simulation, which spans 73000 ticks. the cumulative number of male prey animals hunted and killed by forager bands exhibits a rapid increase initially, followed by a gradual plateau. by around 1500 steps, the cumulative number of males killed reaches approximately 120 and remains relatively constant thereafter. model ( mhpm ) show a clear trend in the cumulative number of postpartum female prey animals killed over time. from approximately 800 steps to 1200 steps, there is a noticeable increase in the cumulative number of births, with values rising to around 8. after this rapid increase, the rate of deaths begins to plateau, indicating a slowdown in the rate of mortality. 1500 steps, the cumulative number of deaths stabilizes, fluctuating slightly but generally maintaining a steady state close to 250 deaths. the number of male animals in the megafaunal hunting pressure model ( mhpm ) starts at approximately 120 and exhibits a consistent decline over time. this decline begins gradually but accelerates as time progresses, suggesting an increasing imbalance where deaths outpace births. by approximately 500 steps, the total energy of male animals drops significantly to around 2000 units. of the female prey population, potentially due to high initial predation pressure or limited food availability. following this steep decline, the energy levels continue to decrease but at a slower rate, stabilizing around 1, 000 steps. after this second decline, the percentage of green patches increases once more, stabilizing at around 32 % by step 1300. after step 1800, the percentage of green patches stabilizes at around 32 % for the remainder of the simulation.