This is an extension of the original RAGE model where we add learning capabilities to agents, specifically learning-by-doing and social learning (two processes central to adaptive (co-)management). The RAGE model is a multi-agent simulation model that captures feedbacks between pastures, livestock and household livelihood in a common property grazing system. It implements three stylized household behavioral types (traditional TRAD, maximizer MAX and satisficer SAT) which are grounded in social theory and reflect empirical observations. These types can be compared regarding their long-term social-ecological consequences. The types differ in their preferences for livestock, how they value social norms concerning pasture resting and how they are influenced by the behavior of others. Besides the evaluation of the behavioral types, the model allows to adjust a range of ecological and climatic parameters, such as rainfall average and variability, vegetation growth rates or livestock reproduction rate. The model can be evaluated across a range of social, ecological and economic outcome variables, such as average herd size, pasture biomass condition or surviving number of households. In addition, the model can be used to evaluate the behavior of the agent population, such as herd size, herd size, herd size, pasture biomass condition or surviving number of households. The model can also be 0 units per time step during the first 10 steps. This rapid early accumulation suggests an aggressive initial response by households to reduce herd sizes, likely driven by risk aversion mechanisms and the need to align livestock numbers with available pasture biomass under uncertain climatic conditions. Additionally, the rapid accumulation of herd sizes suggests a gradual stabilization of herd sizes, likely driven by risk aversion mechanisms and the need to align livestock numbers with available pasture biomass under uncertain climatic conditions. Additionally, the rapid accumulation of herd sizes suggests a gradual stabilization of herd sizes.The pace of destocking decelerates noticeably after the initial phase. A change in trend dynamics occurs around time step 25, marking the transition from rapid adjustment to a more moderate reduction in herd size. By time step 60, another shift is observed, leading to a stabilized growth rate of approximately 0.31 units per step for the remainder of the simulation. The cumulative nature of the metric indicates that once livestock are removed from the system, they are not restocked within the simulation's timeframe, reflecting a permanent asset reduction or sale. Additionally, the rate of destocking is consistent with the time frame of the simulation.The presence of inflection points between steps 45 and 75 further indicates minor fluctuations in the rate of adjustment, potentially corresponding to specific ecological feedback