 The Megaherbivore Hunting Pressure Model (MHPM) is an agent-based model designed to test hypotheses related to the extinction of megaherbiivores . Model considers various factors such as environmental change, human hunting behavior, herd demography, movement, sexual dimorphism, and life history of animals . The model allows users to manipulate various parameters to establish the socio-natural dynamics of the experiment matrix .  The model's landscape consists of an abstract square universe that wraps at the edges, existing on a 211x211 patch matrix with a relative spatial scale . Hunters are embedded with logic approximating dynamic optimal foraging theory, making foraging decisions based on environmental feedback . Ungulate herds are sexually dimorphic, with distinct food values and processing costs for males and females . Animals can reproduce and users can control sex ratios and reproduction probability .  The cumulative number of postpartum female prey animals hunted and killed by forager bands starts at zero and exhibits a rapid increase in the early time steps . By around 250 time steps, the rate of increase begins to slow down, indicating a possible reduction in the immediate availability of prey or a stabilization in the hunting success rate . The overall trend indicates a significant hunting pressure on female prey, with the most substantial increases occurring early in the simulation . The rolling Mann-Kendall analysis indicates  The number of male prey animals in the simulation starts at 125 and exhibits a rapid decline in the initial phase . This sharp decrease can be attributed to the combined effects of hunting pressure and natural mortality . The population experiences a series of fluctuations with minor peaks and valleys, indicating periodic variations in the population dynamics . The simulation concludes with the population of female prey animals reaching zero, indicating complete extinction .  The combined total energy available in the population of male prey animals begins at 12,500 units . This value experiences a rapid decline within the first 125 time steps, dropping significantly . The energy levels exhibit a series of fluctuations and smaller peaks and valleys, indicating periods of temporary stabilization or slight recovery . The simulation ends with the energy levels reaching zero, indicating the complete depletion of energy reserves within the male prey population .  The percentage of landscape patches that are vegetated starts at approximately 33.00% . Over the first 365 time steps, there is a noticeable decline to around 24.91% indicating a significant reduction in vegetation coverage . The vegetation coverage shows a dominant oscillation period of approximately 63 time steps .