The model simulates the shifting landscape of British milk consumption between 1974 and 2005, specifically capturing the historical transition from whole milk to skimmed and semi-skimmed varieties. Within this virtual marketplace, individual agents represent adult consumers who begin with preferences reflective of 1974 market conditions, when whole milk dominated consumer choices. These agents exist within a social network structure where they continuously make milk selections based on their perceptions of product attributes, existing habits, and social pressures from network connections. Each agent processes information about health and environmental characteristics of milk options, weighs these against their habitual tendencies, and responds to social influence from other consumers in their network.

The primary objective is to replicate the observed historical adoption patterns of milk consumption in Britain, capturing how individual decision-making factors collectively drive macro-level market shifts. The model specifically examines three core influences on consumer choice: perception formation regarding health and environmental attributes, the role of habitual behavior in maintaining existing choices, and social influence mechanisms that facilitate or inhibit change. The simulation compares two distinct psychological mechanisms for when consumers become willing to reconsider their habitual choices: a threshold-based approach where agents must accumulate sufficient motivation to break habits, and a probability-based approach where openness to change occurs stochastically. Success is measured by the model's ability to reproduce the historical crossover point where skimmed and semi-skimmed milk consumption surpassed whole milk consumption, as well as accurately depicting the curvature of consumption trends over the 31-year period.

**Key Parameters:**

*Memory and Learning:*
- **memory-lifetime**: Determines how many time steps agents retain information about their past consumption experiences when evaluating future choices. Range: 1.0 to 10.0. Set to: 5.0.

*Initial Perceptions:*
- **alt-health-mean-initial**: Represents the initial average health perception that agents hold regarding alternative milk options (skimmed/semi-skimmed). Range: 1.0 to 3.0. Set to: 1.69.
- **alt-env-mean-initial**: Captures the initial environmental perception of alternative milk types. Range: 0.0 to 3.0. Set to: 1.12.

*Habit Formation and Maintenance:*
- **habit-threshold**: The strength of habitual behavior required to automatically maintain current choices without conscious deliberation. Range: 1.0 to 10.0. Set to: 2.0.
- **incumbent-initial-habit**: The starting habit strength associated with whole milk (the incumbent choice). Range: 0.0 to 10.0. Set to: 10.0.
- **habit-on?**: A toggle determining whether habitual mechanisms are active in the model. Set to: True.

*Social Influence Mechanisms:*
- **p-interact**: The probability that an agent will actually engage with and be influenced by their network connections during any given decision cycle. Range: 0.0 to 1.0. Set to: 0.3.
- **social-susceptibility**: The degree to which agents are personally receptive to social influence when interactions occur. Range: 0.0 to 1.0. Set to: 0.2.
- **network-parameter**: Controls the structural connectivity of the social network. Range: 2.0 to 10.0. Set to: 8.0.
- **network-type**: Specifies the topology of social connections. Set to: "watts-strogatz".
- **social-blindness**: The extent to which agents ignore or fail to perceive social information. Range: 0.0 to 1.0. Set to: 0.51.
- **social-conformity**: The weight given to aligning with perceived social norms when making consumption decisions. Set to: 0.28.
- **norms**: A toggle activating the influence of globally perceived social norms on choice functions. Set to: True.

*Psychological Processing:*
- **justification**: The psychological mechanism allowing agents to rationalize choices that conflict with their values or previous behaviors. Range: 0.0 to 1.0. Set to: 0.61.
- **cognitive-dissonance-threshold**: The level of psychological discomfort an agent can tolerate before feeling compelled to change their behavior or attitudes. Range: 0.0 to 1.0. Set to: 0.15.

*Population Structure:*
- **number-of-agents**: The total population size of virtual consumers in the simulation. Set to: 1000.

The average weekly consumption of whole milk per agent begins at approximately 2,655 units at time step 0, representing the market dominance of whole milk in 1974. Over the subsequent 32 time steps, covering the simulation period through 2005, this metric undergoes a pronounced and sustained decline, ultimately reaching approximately 253 units at termination. This trajectory reflects a market share reduction of roughly ninety percent, capturing the historical transition away from whole milk consumption.

The initial decline is particularly steep during the first five time steps, where the consumption drops sharply from the initial peak before reaching an inflection point at step 5. This early rapid decrease suggests an initial phase of rapid adoption of skimmed and semi-skimmed alternatives, likely driven by agents with lower habit strength or higher susceptibility to health and environmental perception shifts. Following this initial phase, the decline continues through step 13 and step 16 with successive inflections that modulate the rate of decrease, indicating distinct phases of market penetration as different segments of the population respond to social influence and habit formation mechanisms.

Between steps 18 and 19, the decline temporarily stabilizes into a brief oscillation, with the metric reaching a local valley of approximately 760 units at step 18 followed by a marginal rise to a local peak of approximately 774 units at step 19. This micro-fluctuation suggests a temporary equilibrium where resistance from high-habit agents momentarily balances the transition pressure. Similar oscillatory patterns appear in the final phase: between steps 26 and 27, the metric declines to a valley of approximately 594 units before rising to a peak of approximately 621 units at step 27; and between steps 29 and 30, a valley of approximately 323 units at step 29 precedes a final small peak of approximately 335 units at step 30 before the terminal decline to 253 units at step 32. These late-stage oscillations indicate increasing volatility and resistance among the diminishing population of whole milk consumers, where stochastic social influence and high habit thresholds create temporary plateaus rather than smooth decline.

The persistence of approximately 253 units of whole milk consumption at the conclusion of the simulation, despite three decades of transition pressure, indicates that a residual segment of the population maintains strong habitual attachment to whole milk, potentially reinforced by social blindness parameters or low susceptibility to normative influence. The varying rates of decline captured by the multiple inflection points suggest that the population segments into distinct adopter categories—early changers driving the initial steep decline, a middle majority responding to accumulated social proof during the moderate decline phases, and a resistant minority whose gradual departure creates the oscillatory final phase.

For decision makers, the multi-phase nature of the consumption decline suggests that intervention strategies require temporal adaptation: aggressive educational and social influence campaigns prove most cost-effective during the early steep decline phase when habit strength is weakest, while later phases demand targeted, personalized approaches for resistant subpopulations. The persistence of a non-zero consumption floor at approximately ten percent of initial levels indicates that voluntary behavioral change alone may be insufficient for complete category elimination, informing realistic expectations for transition timelines in similar dietary shift policies.

The simulated adoption of skimmed and semi-skimmed milk begins at a minimal baseline of 5.29 units per agent at time step 0, reflecting the 1974 market conditions where whole milk maintained dominant habitual preference. During the initial phase from steps 0 through 9, consumption increases rapidly and significantly, suggesting that despite the strong incumbent habit strength associated with traditional whole milk, early-forming health and environmental perceptions begin motivating agents to reconsider their automatic choices. By step 9, weekly consumption has already approached intermediate levels, indicating the initial effectiveness of information dissemination and early social network effects in overcoming habitual inertia.

Between steps 10 and 24, the adoption trajectory enters a volatile plateau phase characterized by oscillations between approximately 1,183 and 1,265 units. Notable peaks occur at steps 11 (1,265.47), 13 (1,240.35), 19 (1,221.57), and 21 (1,226.86), interspersed with valleys at steps 12 (1,233.62), 18 (1,183.39), 20 (1,214.46), and 23 (1,209.70). This fluctuating pattern without clear directional trend suggests a contested transition period where psychological mechanisms of habit maintenance and cognitive dissonance resistance create temporary setbacks against adoption, while ongoing social interactions within the Watts-Strogatz network structure simultaneously exert normative pressure favoring change. The specific trough at step 18 represents the most significant regression during this middle period, potentially indicating a temporary resurgence of habitual whole milk selection before social conformity mechanisms reassert influence.

From step 25 onward, the system exhibits renewed consistent growth through step 29, eventually reaching a terminal value of 1,456.60 at step 32. This late-stage acceleration, following the extended plateau, indicates that after approximately 25 time steps, the accumulation of social proof and normalized health perceptions finally overwhelms the remaining habitual resistance and social blindness parameters that initially inhibited rapid adoption. The final value represents nearly a 275-fold increase from initial conditions, successfully capturing the historical crossover where alternative milk varieties achieved market dominance over whole milk.

**Implications for Decision Makers:**

The observed S-curve adoption pattern with a pronounced middle-period plateau suggests that public health campaigns and product marketing strategies should anticipate significant resistance phases lasting approximately 10-15 time steps even after achieving initial market penetration. Decision makers should prepare for temporary consumption regressions during the transition period, indicating that sustained intervention is necessary to overcome habitual behavior rather than relying on early adopter momentum alone. The eventual success of alternative milk adoption despite high initial social blindness (0.51) and strong incumbent habits underscores the critical importance of maintaining consistent messaging over extended periods to allow social norm formation to eventually drive automatic behavior change. Additionally, the volatility observed between steps 10-24 suggests that timing market investments during apparent adoption slowdowns may be premature, as the system requires sufficient social network saturation before achieving the self-reinforcing growth observed in the final phase.

The cumulative frequency of whole milk selections initiates at zero and demonstrates a sustained monotonic increase throughout the entire simulation timeframe, ultimately approaching approximately 2,195 total selections by the final observation. This accumulation exhibits a consistently positive growth trajectory across all measured intervals, though the velocity of accumulation exhibits a gradual deceleration from an initial slope of roughly 71 selections per time step to approximately 64 selections per time step by the conclusion of the period, indicating a persistent but slightly moderating engagement with the incumbent product.

The accumulation profile displays distinct inflection behavior at three critical temporal junctures: an initial adjustment phase occurring immediately at the outset (first time step), a transitional phase manifesting around the seventh time step, and a final modulation near the thirty-first time step. These curvature shifts suggest periods where the interplay between habitual maintenance mechanisms and emerging social influences temporarily alter the rate at which agents reinforce their existing whole milk consumption patterns, potentially reflecting moments when the high initial habit strength (incumbent-initial-habit: 10.0) begins encountering substantial pressure from accumulated social learning regarding alternative products.

Despite the overall upward trend, the trajectory demonstrates substantial variability, with a standard deviation of approximately 655 selections relative to the mean accumulation of 1,131. This considerable dispersion indicates significant heterogeneity in consumption persistence across the simulated population, likely stemming from the model's incorporation of diverse psychological thresholds, stochastic social interaction probabilities (p-interact: 0.3), and varying positions within the Watts-Strogatz network structure. The coefficient of variation suggests that individual agent pathways diverge considerably from the aggregate mean, reflecting the complex interaction between justification mechanisms (0.61) and cognitive dissonance thresholds (0.15) that drive non-uniform behavioral responses.

Oscillatory patterns emerge prominently in the latter portion of the simulation, particularly between the twenty-seventh and thirtieth time steps, indicating periodic fluctuations in whole milk selection frequency that overlay the secular accumulation trend. These late-stage oscillations, occurring near the change point at time step 32, likely reflect the stochastic nature of threshold-based habit-breaking mechanisms and probabilistic social interactions operating within the agent population as the system approaches saturation of possible whole milk selections under declining market dominance conditions.

**Implications for Decision Makers:**

Decision makers should recognize that incumbent products maintain substantial cumulative consumption momentum even during periods of market transition, as habitual behaviors (reinforced by high initial habit strength) generate persistent residual demand that accumulates over extended timeframes. The gradual deceleration in accumulation rates suggests that interventions targeting dietary transitions require sustained long-term implementation horizons, as entrenched consumption patterns exhibit considerable inertia even when social norms begin favoring alternatives. Furthermore, the high variability across the simulated population implies that uniform policy approaches may produce unpredictably divergent outcomes across different demographic segments and network structures, necessitating adaptive strategies that account for heterogeneous psychological susceptibilities to social influence and varying thresholds for habit disruption. The presence of late-stage oscillations indicates that market transitions may exhibit non-linear dynamics near critical tipping points, requiring careful monitoring to distinguish between temporary fluctuations and genuine secular shifts in consumption patterns.

The cumulative adoption of skimmed and semi-skimmed milk begins at zero, reflecting the initial market dominance of whole milk and the high habitual attachment agents possess toward incumbent choices at the simulation outset. During the first five time steps, accumulation remains modest, reaching approximately 1,000 total selections, indicating that early adopters require substantial accumulated motivation to overcome entrenched consumption habits despite low baseline perceptions of alternative milk attributes.

Between time steps five and nine, the adoption rate accelerates markedly, with cumulative selections rising to approximately 4,700. This fourfold increase in growth velocity suggests that as initial perceptions of health and environmental benefits update through the five-step memory lifetime, coupled with intermittent social interactions at the thirty percent probability threshold, a critical mass of agents begins reconsidering habitual choices. The transition through time step fourteen, when cumulative adoption exceeds 9,300, demonstrates how accumulated motivation progressively challenges the high initial habit strength associated with traditional whole milk consumption.

From time step fifteen through twenty-nine, the system maintains a steep, consistent trajectory, expanding from approximately 14,000 to nearly 23,400 total selections. This period of rapid diffusion indicates that social influence mechanisms, operating through the Watts-Strogatz network topology with moderate conformity weights and social susceptibility parameters, facilitate widespread behavioral change once initial resistance thresholds have been breached. The high connectivity parameter enables efficient information transmission during this phase, while justification mechanisms operating at fifty-one percent allow agents to reconcile new choices with existing value structures.

As the simulation approaches its conclusion, an inflection emerges near time step thirty-one, where the previously steep growth pattern decelerates toward a final value of approximately 25,644 cumulative selections. The terminal phase exhibits oscillatory behavior between time steps twenty-seven and thirty-one, suggesting that while aggregate adoption continues to rise toward saturation, individual-level fluctuations emerge as the remaining holdout agents—those possessing habit strengths exceeding the threshold value or elevated social blindness—resist complete conversion, creating micro-variations around the maximum adoption ceiling.

For decision makers, these dynamics illustrate that disrupting deeply ingrained consumption habits requires sustained intervention periods before acceleration occurs, and that social influence strategies prove most effective after initial perception thresholds have been partially established. The eventual plateau indicates that even with robust social networks and active norm promotion, complete market conversion may face structural limits imposed by heterogeneous psychological resistance thresholds and varying degrees of social blindness within the consumer population.

The total volume of milk selections accumulates in a perfectly linear progression throughout the 1974-2005 observation period. Beginning at zero decisions at the outset of 1974, the aggregate count increases by precisely 1,000 choices at each successive annual interval, reaching approximately 16,000 total selections by the midpoint around 1989-1990 and culminating at 32,000 cumulative choices by 2005. This consistent accumulation rate, maintained without deviation across all observation points, indicates that the consumer population remains fully engaged in active decision-making throughout the entire duration of the market transition.

This pattern reflects continuous participation by the complete cohort of adult consumers, with each individual contributing approximately one milk selection per time period on average. The stability of this linear growth persists despite substantial shifts in the underlying market composition, including the erosion of whole milk's dominance and the rising adoption of skimmed and semi-skimmed varieties. Notably, the accumulation rate shows no inflection even during periods when threshold-based habit-breaking mechanisms and social influence pressures likely accelerated the transition between milk types, suggesting that agents maintained consistent purchase frequencies regardless of which specific variety they selected or their initial perceptions of health and environmental attributes.

For decision makers, this trend indicates that consumer attention to milk categories remained stable and predictable throughout the historical transition period. Public health initiatives and marketing strategies targeting behavioral change could rely on sustained consumer engagement without needing to account for market dropout or declining participation rates that might otherwise complicate intervention timing. The consistent volume of decision-making activity suggests that the marketplace offered sufficient variety and accessibility to maintain consumer involvement even as preferences shifted from incumbent whole milk options to alternative varieties.

The mean quantity of whole milk consumed begins at approximately 2655 units at the initial time step, reflecting the market dominance of whole milk in 1974 when incumbent habits were strongest. Over the subsequent 32 time steps spanning the period through 2005, consumption undergoes a substantial decline to approximately 253 units, documenting the historical transition away from whole milk toward skimmed and semi-skimmed varieties.

The trajectory of decline is distinctly non-linear, characterized by varying rates of change across distinct phases. During the initial five time steps, consumption decreases steeply as early adopters begin shifting away from the incumbent choice. This decline accelerates significantly between time steps 5 and 9, representing the period of most rapid abandonment of whole milk. This sharp descent suggests that once initial habitual barriers—established at the maximum initial strength of 10.0—begin to weaken, the combined influence of moderate initial health perceptions regarding alternatives (1.69) and social network dynamics drives swift behavioral change among susceptible consumers.

Between time steps 10 and 14, the rate of decline moderates considerably, though remaining directionally negative. A pronounced plateau emerges between time steps 15 and 19, where the trend flattens and values stabilize in the range of 760 to 774 units with minimal net change. This mid-period stagnation likely reflects the persistence of habitual behavior among a resistant consumer segment, where the habit threshold of 2.0 creates friction against further change, or represents a temporary equilibrium within the highly connected social network (parameter 8.0) where remaining whole milk consumers reinforce each other's choices through conformity mechanisms.

Following this stabilization, a gentle decline resumes between time steps 20 and 24, with values falling from approximately 620 to below 500 units. Another period of reduced directional trend occurs between time steps 25 and 29, where consumption hovers between approximately 323 and 594 units. Throughout these later stages, minor oscillations appear, characterized by small peaks at time steps 19, 27, and 30, and corresponding valleys at steps 18, 26, and 29, each showing minimal prominence. These fluctuations suggest market volatility as the system approaches a new equilibrium, with residual whole milk consumption persisting among a shrinking but resistant population segment.

The presence of cyclical patterns with an approximate 15-step period overlaying the downward trend indicates that consumers periodically reassess their choices, potentially corresponding to intervals where accumulated information about health and environmental attributes, combined with social influence at a 30% interaction probability, triggers waves of reconsideration even as overall trends favor alternatives.

For decision makers, the non-linear trajectory with its pronounced mid-period plateau suggests that market transitions driven by habit disruption face significant resistance at intermediate adoption levels. Initial rapid adoption may stall when reaching consumer segments with strong habitual attachments, indicating that intensified intervention strategies may be necessary during the middle phases (approximately time steps 15-19) to overcome resistance. The eventual stabilization at low but non-zero levels demonstrates that complete market elimination of incumbent products may prove difficult due to persistent loyal segments, suggesting that strategies should account for long-term residual market maintenance rather than expecting total category abandonment.

: [
    {
      "start_timestamp": "00:00",
      "end_timestamp": "02:30",
      "summary": "The document provides a detailed analysis of an Agent-Based Model (ABM) simulation focused on British milk consumption trends from 1974 to 2005. The metric analyzed is the 'mean quantity of skimmed and semi-skimmed milk consumed.' The speaker introduces the context: a shift from whole milk to alternatives driven by health perceptions, habits, and social influence. Key parameters like 'habit-threshold' (2.0), 'incumbent-initial-habit' (10.0), and 'alt-health-mean-initial' (1.69) are explained as crucial for understanding the initial resistance to change and the subsequent adoption curve. The statistical summary shows a start value of 5.29, an end value of 1456.60, and a non-linear growth pattern with distinct phases.",
      "key details": {
        "00:00": "The analysis is based on an Agent-Based Model (ABM) simulating British milk consumption from 1974 to 2005.",
        "00:15": "The primary metric is the mean quantity of skimmed and semi-skimmed milk consumed by agents.",
        "00:30": "The model incorporates three core influences: perception formation, habitual behavior, and social influence.",
        "00:45": "Key parameters are highlighted: 'habit-threshold' is set to 2.0, while 'incumbent-initial-habit' for whole milk is 10.0, indicating strong initial resistance.",
        "01:10": "The initial health perception of alternative milk ('alt-health-mean-initial') is 1.69 on a 1-3 scale, suggesting a moderately positive but not overwhelming initial view.",
        "01:40": "The statistical summary reveals the consumption of alternatives starts at 5.29 units and ends at 1456.60 units over 33 time steps.",
        "02:10": "The data shows a complex trend with an initial rapid increase, a prolonged plateau with oscillations, and a final growth phase, rather than a simple linear trajectory."
      }
    },
    {
      "start_timestamp": "02:30",
      "end_timestamp": "05:45",
      "summary": "This section delves into the first phase of the simulation, covering approximately the first nine time steps (1974 to early 1980s). The speaker describes this as a period of 'rapid early growth' where consumption increases significantly from the initial value of 5.29. Using the Mann-Kendall trend analysis, it's noted that the first two windows (steps 0-4 and 5-9) show statistically significant increasing trends with steep slopes of 112.8 and 139.0, respectively. This growth is interpreted as the period where early adopters begin to overcome the strong incumbent habits (10.0) associated with whole milk. The speaker links this to the agents' processing of health and environmental information and the beginning of social influence within the Watts-Strogatz network structure, despite a high 'social-blindness' parameter of 0.51.",
      "key details": {
        "02:35": "Phase 1 is identified as the 'Initial Rapid Growth' period, spanning roughly the first nine time steps.",
        "02:50": "Rolling Mann-Kendall analysis confirms a significant increasing trend in windows 1 (slope: 112.8) and 2 (slope: 139.0).",
        "03:20": "By time step 9, consumption reaches approximately 1,151 units, a massive increase from the starting 5.29 units.",
        "03:45": "This phase represents the initial breakthrough where consumers begin challenging the dominant whole milk habits.",
        "04:15": "The growth is attributed to the accumulation of positive perceptions regarding health and environmental attributes, even with initial values of 1.69 and 1.12.",
        "04:50": "Social influence begins to play a role, with a 30% interaction probability ('p-interact') and moderate social susceptibility (0.2), though social blindness is high at 0.51."
      }
    },
    {
      "start_timestamp": "05:45",
      "end_timestamp": "09:15",
      "summary": "The speaker characterizes the middle period of the simulation, from approximately time step 10 to 24 (mid-1980s to mid-1990s), as a 'volatile plateau' or 'equilibrium phase.' During this time, the Mann-Kendall analysis shows 'no trend' for windows 3, 4, and 5, indicating that the rapid growth stalled. Consumption oscillates between a valley of 1,183.39 (step 18) and a peak of 1,265.47 (step 11). The speaker identifies several peaks (11, 13, 19, 21) and valleys (12, 18, 20, 23), suggesting a dominant oscillation period of roughly 15 years. This fluctuation is interpreted as a psychological tug-of-war: agents experience cognitive dissonance (threshold 0.15) between their habitual whole milk consumption and emerging social norms, using justification mechanisms (0.61) to rationalize their choices. The 'habit-threshold' of 2.0 vs. declining habit strength creates a contested market share environment.",
      "key details": {
        "05:50": "Phase 2 is described as a prolonged plateau lasting from roughly step 10 to 24, corresponding to the mid-1980s to mid-1990s.",
        "06:10": "Statistical analysis shows no significant trend during this period (windows 3, 4, and 5), with p-values of 1.000, 0.462, and 0.806.",
        "06:40": "The data exhibits significant oscillation, with consumption fluctuating between approximately 1,183 and 1,265 units.",
        "07:10": "Specific peaks are identified at indices 11 (1,265.47), 13 (1,240.35), 19 (1,221.57), and 21 (1,226.86).",
        "07:35": "Valleys occur at indices 12 (1,233.62), 18 (1,183.39), 20 (1,214.46), and 23 (1,209.70).",
        "08:00": "The dominant oscillation period is calculated as 15.00, fitting the observed volatility within the 31-year span.",
        "08:25": "This volatility is explained by the conflict between entrenched habits, the 'cognitive-dissonance-threshold' of 0.15, and the 'justification' parameter of 0.61, which allows agents to rationalize inconsistent choices."
      }
    },
    {
      "start_timestamp": "09:15",
      "end_timestamp": "12:00",
      "summary": "This segment focuses on the final phase of the simulation, from time step 25 to 32 (late 1990s to 2005). After the extended plateau, the trend resumes a significant increase in window 6 (steps 25-29), with a slope of 48.5 and a p-value of 0.027, indicating statistical significance. Consumption climbs from the plateau levels of around 1,200 units to the final value of 1,456.60. The speaker interprets this as the 'tipping point' or 'consolidation phase,' where social norms regarding skimmed and semi-skimmed milk have finally shifted decisively. The combination of accumulated positive perceptions, weakened habitual ties to whole milk over time, and the 'social-conformity' weight of 0.28 drives the final surge in adoption, successfully replicating the historical crossover where alternatives surpassed whole milk consumption.",
      "key details": {
        "09:20": "Phase 3 represents the final growth stage, from step 25 to the end of the simulation at step 32.",
        "09:40": "Mann-Kendall window 6 (steps 25-29) shows a renewed, significant increasing trend with a slope of 48.54.",
        "10:05": "The final value reached is 1,456.60, representing the successful market dominance of alternative milk types by 2005.",
        "10:30": "This phase corresponds to the historical crossover point where skimmed and semi-skimmed milk consumption surpassed whole milk.",
        "10:55": "The growth is attributed to the solidification of social norms ('norms' set to True, 'social-conformity' at 0.28) and the weakening of initial incumbent habits over the 'memory-lifetime' of 5.0 steps.",
        "11:25": "The 'justification' mechanism (0.61) and cognitive processing allow agents to finally resolve dissonance in favor of the new, healthier norm."
      }
    },
    {
      "start_timestamp": "12:00",
      "end_timestamp": "13:30",
      "summary": "The video concludes with strategic implications for decision makers based on the observed trends. The speaker emphasizes that the non-linear, oscillatory pattern reveals critical insights. First, the initial rapid growth suggests that targeting early adopters with health and environmental messaging is effective, but only to a point. Second, and most importantly, the prolonged middle plateau indicates that habit formation is a powerful barrier; policy interventions must be sustained through periods of apparent stagnation. Third, the final surge demonstrates the critical role of social norms and network effects in achieving mass adoption. Decision makers are advised to time interventions to coincide with natural upward cycles and to focus on reducing 'social-blindness' or leveraging 'justification' mechanisms during volatile equilibrium phases to prevent reversals and push towards the tipping point.",
      "key details": {
        "12:05": "Implication 1: Early growth is achievable, but the middle plateau represents a dangerous period of stagnation where many consumers remain locked in habitual behaviors.",
        "12:30": "Implication 2: The 15-year oscillation period suggests that transitional markets have predictable cycles of resistance; policies should be timed to reinforce upward trends.",
        "12:55": "Implication 3: The final growth phase proves that achieving a critical mass of social conformity (0.28) is essential for the final market shift; early majority adoption is not enough.",
        "13:15": "Recommendation: Decision makers should design long-term strategies that account for psychological resistance (high initial habits) and leverage social networks to overcome the 'social-blindness' (0.51) observed in the population."
      }
    }
  ]
}
<end of video analysis>

The mean habit factor influencing whole milk consumption begins at 1.000 and exhibits a steady, monotonic increase throughout the 31-year simulation period, terminating at approximately 1.050. This gradual upward trajectory indicates that the relative weight of habitual behavior in reinforcing whole milk selection strengthens marginally but consistently over time, despite the historical shift toward alternative milk varieties.

The progression displays remarkable consistency, with statistically significant positive trends detected across all sequential five-step windows (tau=1.000, p=0.027), each contributing a slope of approximately 0.001 per step. The rate of increase undergoes subtle modulation at approximately time step 7 and again at time step 12, where inflection points suggest brief accelerations in habit reinforcement before resuming the established gradual ascent. A notable change point occurs at time step 32, marking the end of the observable trend.

Superimposed upon this long-term increase, the series exhibits oscillatory behavior with a dominant periodicity of approximately 15 time steps. These cyclical fluctuations manifest as deviations from the trend line around time steps 3-7, 15-18, and 26-30, possibly reflecting periodic reassessments of consumption patterns or external influences that temporarily modulate habitual strength. Despite these oscillations, the overall variance remains extremely low (standard deviation 0.011), indicating high predictability and robustness in the habit factor's evolution across simulation runs.

**Implications for Decision Makers:**

This pattern suggests that as the broader population progressively adopts skimmed and semi-skimmed alternatives, the residual pool of whole milk consumers self-selects into an increasingly entrenched cohort with deepening habitual attachments to the incumbent product. For food manufacturers and public health policymakers, this implies that the remaining whole milk market comprises consumers who are progressively more resistant to change, requiring increasingly potent intervention strategies (whether health education campaigns or product positioning) to overcome these strengthening habitual barriers. The predictable, low-variance nature of this trend indicates that demand for whole milk will likely persist among this loyal segment regardless of broader market shifts, suggesting niche marketing opportunities for whole milk producers while challenging public health goals of reducing saturated fat consumption.

The habit-driven choice factor for skimmed and semi-skimmed milk initiates at a neutral baseline of 1.0000 and follows a sigmoid growth trajectory over the 33 time steps, ultimately reaching 1.5879 by the conclusion of the simulation period. This overall pattern indicates a progressive routinization of low-fat milk consumption behaviors, though the metric terminates at a value substantially below the initial whole milk habit strength of 10.0, suggesting that alternative milk varieties never achieve equivalent automaticity within the consumer population.

Throughout the initial five time steps, the factor exhibits minimal movement, fluctuating narrowly around 1.02 before declining slightly to a local minimum of approximately 1.017 at step 5. This stagnation represents the persistence of incumbent consumption patterns, where the high initial habit strength for whole milk (coupled with a habit threshold of 2.0) creates substantial behavioral inertia that suppresses the crystallization of new routines for alternative products despite positive health and environmental perceptions.

Following the fifth time step, the metric enters a phase of statistically significant and accelerating increase, with the growth rate peaking between steps 10 and 14 (slope 0.030 per step). During this interval, the choice factor climbs from roughly 1.05 to 1.35, reflecting a critical transition wherein repeated consumption experiences—retained in agent memory over five time steps—accumulate sufficiently to surpass the deliberation threshold and automate low-fat milk selection. An inflection point at step 12 marks the maximum velocity of habit formation, coinciding with the period when social influence mechanisms (operating at 30% interaction probability and 51% social blindness) most effectively propagate new behavioral norms through the Watts-Strogatz network structure.

A change point at step 15 initiates a final regime of sustained but decelerating growth, with the rate of increase progressively declining from 0.027 to 0.018 per step through step 29. This deceleration indicates market maturation, as the pool of consumers susceptible to habit conversion diminishes and the majority of the population establishes stable low-fat milk routines. Superimposed upon this trend are oscillatory fluctuations with a dominant periodicity of approximately 15 steps, particularly visible between steps 17-18 and 26-30, suggesting cyclical regressions potentially driven by cognitive dissonance episodes or temporary reversions to incumbent choices when justification mechanisms fail to reconcile conflicting attribute perceptions.

**Implications for Decision Makers:**

The five-step incubation period preceding measurable habit growth suggests that transitional marketing strategies must sustain engagement for extended durations before behavioral lock-in occurs, requiring patient capital allocation rather than short-term campaign bursts. The steep acceleration phase between steps 10-14 represents the optimal intervention window, where promotional investments targeting habit formation yield maximal marginal returns as social contagion effects amplify individual-level behavior change. Finally, the terminal value remaining below 2.0 indicates that three decades of market evolution were insufficient to establish low-fat milk habits comparable to whole milk's initial dominance, implying that complete market transformation may necessitate structural interventions—such as product reformulation or distribution channel shifts—rather than relying solely on gradual preference evolution to dismantle deeply entrenched incumbent behaviors.

The divergence in consumer choice evaluations initiates at zero, indicating complete homogeneity in utility functions among agents when the simulation begins. This initial uniformity reflects the 1974 market conditions characterized by maximum habitual strength toward whole milk consumption, where the incumbent product dominated consumer behavior with minimal perceived differentiation between options. Over the subsequent 33 time steps spanning the 1974-2005 period, the spread between the highest and lowest choice function scores increases monotonically to approximately 0.75, demonstrating a substantial fragmentation of consumer preferences as agents process divergent information regarding health and environmental attributes of alternative milk varieties.

The trajectory of differentiation unfolds through three distinct phases marked by inflection points at time steps 7, 12, and 28. The first phase through step 7 exhibits an initial acceleration in divergence as early adopters, operating with a five-period memory window, accumulate sufficient counter-attitudinal information to overcome the high initial habit strength associated with whole milk. Between steps 7 and 12, the system enters a transitional phase where the rate of divergence moderates slightly, reflecting the stochastic nature of social interactions occurring with 30% probability and moderate susceptibility within the Watts-Strogatz network structure. The third phase, spanning steps 12 to 28, shows renewed acceleration in preference fragmentation as social conformity mechanisms and normative pressures facilitate the propagation of alternative milk acceptance across network clusters, corresponding to the historical period when skimmed and semi-skimmed varieties gained mainstream traction. After step 28, the curve approaches saturation, with the value of 0.7508 at step 32 indicating a stable equilibrium of persistent heterogeneity where distinct consumer segments remain locked in divergent preference patterns.

Superimposed on this secular trend toward increasing dispersion, the system exhibits periodic oscillations with a dominant wavelength of approximately 15 time steps, manifesting in detectable fluctuations concentrated around steps 6 through 8, 16 through 19, and 26 through 30. These cyclical variations likely correspond to waves of social influence propagation and habitual reconsideration events, wherein temporary convergences driven by normative alignment give way to renewed divergence as agents rationalize individualized choices through justification mechanisms when facing cognitive dissonance thresholds.

The consistent upward trajectory across all observation windows, statistically confirmed by significant monotonic increase tests despite underlying stochasticity, indicates that the movement toward preference diversity remains robust and deterministic across simulation runs.

Implications for decision makers: The sustained increase in choice function divergence demonstrates that market transitions generate persistent segmentation rather than uniform consumer shifts, necessitating differentiated marketing strategies that accommodate distinct preference clusters throughout the transition period. The identification of specific temporal inflection points—particularly the early acceleration at step 7 and the late-stage saturation commencing at step 28—provides actionable markers for timing intervention campaigns. Furthermore, the predictable oscillatory pattern with 15-period cycles offers strategic opportunities for synchronizing promotional activities with anticipated windows of heightened consumer openness to reconsidering habitual choices.

The deviation between consumers’ held health values and the values implied by their actual milk choices initiates at zero and accumulates steadily throughout the 31-year transition period, ultimately reaching approximately 0.73 by the final time step. This trajectory indicates an expanding psychological gap wherein consumers increasingly recognize the superior health attributes of skimmed and semi-skimmed varieties yet persist in habitual whole milk consumption, creating mounting cognitive dissonance within the population.

The growth manifests distinctly across three temporal phases. During the initial period (time steps 0 through 4, corresponding roughly to 1974–1978), the deviation accelerates rapidly with an initial slope of 0.063, followed by a sustained rate of 0.041 through step 9. This steep early ascent reflects the immediate impact of emerging health information penetrating the consumer network, wherein agents begin updating their health perceptions of alternatives from the initial baseline of 1.69 while maintaining strong incumbent habits (strength 10.0) for whole milk. The habit threshold of 2.0 proves insufficient to trigger automatic behavior change despite shifting attitudes, resulting in swift accumulation of misalignment.

A pronounced inflection occurs around time steps 4 and 6, after which the rate of dissonance growth decelerates significantly. Through the middle phase (steps 10 through 24, approximately 1984–1998), the slope diminishes to as low as 0.003 (steps 15–19) before stabilizing around 0.004. This plateau suggests the system enters a quasi-equilibrium where the population bifurcates: early adopters switch to alternatives (eliminating their personal deviation) while resistant consumers—protected by high habit strength and social blindness parameters (0.51)—maintain whole milk consumption despite heightened health awareness. The oscillatory patterns detected with a dominant period of 15 steps (centered near step 16–19) indicate cyclical waves of justification behavior and partial reconsideration during this interval.

The final phase (steps 28 through 32, approximately 2002–2005) exhibits renewed acceleration with a slope of 0.019, culminating in the maximum observed deviation of 0.7251. This late-stage intensification occurs as social conformity pressures (weight 0.28) and normative influence reach critical mass, leaving remaining whole milk consumers increasingly isolated. For these holdouts, the gap between their health valuations and consumption choices widens precipitously as the social network overwhelmingly shifts toward alternatives, yet their habitual mechanisms and justification capabilities (0.61) delay behavioral alignment.

Notably, the median deviation (0.558) exceeds the mean (0.497), indicating that the population spends disproportionate time at higher dissonance levels during the latter half of the simulation. The consistent monotonic increase across all rolling windows—with significant Mann-Kendall trends throughout—confirms that cognitive dissonance never resolves within the modeled timeframe; rather, it compounds as the market transition approaches completion.

**Implications for Decision Makers**

These dynamics reveal that during major dietary transitions, consumer populations can sustain significant and growing psychological tension for decades. Public health campaigns should recognize that information dissemination creates immediate dissonance but not immediate behavior change; interventions targeting the "middle plateau" phase (when dissonance growth slows but persists) may prove most cost-effective for converting resistant segments. Furthermore, the late-stage acceleration suggests that policy makers and marketers should prepare for intensified rationalization behaviors among final holdouts, as these consumers face maximum psychological pressure while maintaining habitual choices. The persistent gap between attitudes and behaviors underscores the necessity of addressing habitual mechanisms directly, rather than relying solely on health messaging, to reduce the psychological burden of dietary transitions.

The deviation between consumers' environmental values and their milk choices initiates at zero, indicating complete alignment between environmental valuations and consumption behaviors at the simulation's outset, corresponding to the 1974 baseline period. Over the first approximately thirteen time steps, this metric exhibits a sharp, sustained increase, ascending rapidly to reach a maximum value of 13.48 around time step 13. This steep upward trajectory reflects a significant and rapid divergence emerging as agents begin departing from habitual whole milk consumption—driven by evolving health perceptions and social influence mechanisms—and adopting alternative varieties that conflict with their underlying environmental values. Statistical evidence confirms significant positive trends during the initial ten time steps, with the rate of increase moderating but continuing through this establishment phase as the population breaks from initial habit strength of 10.0.

Subsequent to time step 16, the series transitions into a stable plateau characterized by high persistent deviation, fluctuating narrowly between approximately 13.42 and 13.48 through the conclusion of the simulation at time step 32. While the metric exhibits minor oscillations throughout this latter period—including local peaks near time steps 19, 21, and 27, and subtle troughs at intervening points—the overall trajectory demonstrates no significant directional trend after the initial rise, indicating that the system has settled into a steady state of enduring value-behavior misalignment. The presence of a dominant oscillation period of approximately fifteen time steps, coupled with inflection points at time steps 19, 24, 26, and 28, suggests ongoing cyclical adjustments in consumer decision-making processes that maintain the baseline level of environmental deviation without resolving the underlying tension.

Interpretation within the model context reveals that this pattern captures the secondary role of environmental considerations during Britain's historical milk transition. The initial absence of deviation reflects the alignment between strong incumbent habits for whole milk and the limited environmental differentiation between options at the simulation start (alt-env-mean-initial 1.12). As agents overcome these habitual barriers and increasingly select skimmed or semi-skimmed varieties motivated by health attribute perceptions (alt-health-mean-initial 1.69) and social conformity pressures (social-conformity 0.28), their choices increasingly mismatch their environmental values. The stabilization at elevated deviation levels suggests that once the market shift toward alternatives becomes entrenched around time step 13-16, the environmental dimension of milk consumption remains inadequately addressed by the available product mix, leaving consumers in a persistent state of cognitive dissonance despite the presence of justification mechanisms (justification 0.61).

For decision makers, the sustained high deviation throughout the latter half of the simulation period indicates that market transitions driven primarily by health benefits can inadvertently lock in long-term misalignments with other consumer values, particularly environmental sustainability. This suggests opportunities for differentiated positioning of milk alternatives that explicitly bridge this gap, such as emphasizing environmental credentials of low-fat options or developing new products that satisfy both health and environmental criteria simultaneously. Furthermore, the rapid emergence of this deviation during early transition phases highlights the importance of proactive environmental messaging during periods of category disruption, before alternative consumption patterns become habitual and resistant to further value-based realignment.