The agent-based model in question is an extension of the RAGE (Rangeland Grazing Ecology) model, which simulates the interactions between pastures, livestock, and household livelihoods in a common property grazing system. The extension introduces learning capabilities to the agents, specifically learning-by-doing and social learning, which are central to adaptive co-management. The model aims to evaluate the long-term social-ecological consequences of different household behavioral types and their interactions with ecological and climatic parameters. The model consists of two main sub-models: Vegetation and Household decision-making, which are linked through a yearly sequence of processes. The model is grounded in social theory and reflects empirical observations, providing a robust framework for studying the complex interactions in grazing systems. The model is based on the principles of the RAGE model, which is grounded in social theory and reflects empirical observations. The model is grounded in social theory and reflects empirical observations, providing a robust framework for studying the complex interactions in grazing systems. The model is based on the principles of social theory and empirical observations.The average initial risk attitude of all social learning agents remains constant throughout the simulation period. It starts at a value of approximately 0.0074 and maintains this value without any deviation  of 42,057.0353 units at time step 27. This initial decline could be attributed to the grazing pressure exerted by the livestock, which reduces the available biomass as they consume the vegetation. After this low point, the biomass begins to recover and exhibits a consistent increasing trend. This recovery phase starts around time step 50 and continues steadily until the end of the simulation. The biomass reaches its highest value of 60,535.2808 units at the final time step, 100. The consistent increase in biomass during the latter half of the simulation suggests a period of vegetation regrowth and recovery, potentially due to reduced grazing pressure or favorable climatic conditions promoting vegetation growth. The overall trend shows a significant adoption of social learning behaviors, with the majority of the change occurring within the first 40 time steps, followed by a stable phase indicating sustained engagement in social learning practices. In the second half of the simulation, the biomass reaches its highest value of 60,535.2808 units at time step 50. The biomass reaches its highest value of 60,535.2808 units at time step 50. The biomass reaches its highest value of 60,535.2808 units at time step 50. The biomass reaches its highest value of 60,535.2808 units at time step 50