the rage model is a multi - agent simulation model that captures feedbacks between pastures, livestock and household livelihood in a common property grazing system. three new behavioural types are created ( which cannot be combined with the original ones ) : e - ro ( baseline behaviour ), e - lbd ( learning - by - doing ) and e - ro - sl1 ( social learning ). the r - parameter is catch - all for various factors that form an agent's disposition to act in a certain way, such as : uncertainty in the sensing ( partial observability of the resource system ), noise in the information received, or an inherent characteristic of the agent, for instance, their risk attitude. - number - households, range : 1. - satisficing - threshold, range : 0. - satisficing - trials, range : 0. - knowledge - radius, range : 0. - resting - threshold, range : 0. - intrinsic - preference, range : 0. - social - susceptibility, range : 0. - start - on - homepatch?. - homog - behav - types?. - sl2 - strategy - switch?. - risk - mode?. - risk - att - init. - number - e - ro - sl1. the average initial risk attitude of all social learning agents remains constant at 0. the metric does not exhibit any temporal variation, peaks, or trend shifts from the start to the end of the period. this phase is characterized by high volatility and a sharp divergence among individual agents, indicating that households are rapidly increasing their risk attitudes following the simulation initialization. from timestep 70 to the conclusion at timestep 100, the data indicates a stabilization phase where the aggregate average fluctuates without a significant directional trend, maintaining a value around 0. the average reserve biomass in the grazing system exhibits a distinct non - linear trajectory over the 100 time steps. the average green biomass across all patches begins at 45000 and follows a biphasic trajectory : an initial decline followed by a sustained increase to 60535. by time step 60, the rate of increase begins to moderate, and the metric stabilizes towards the upper range of the simulation period, reaching a maximum of 60535. the downward trend continues more gradually until step 37, where the metric reaches its minimum value of approximately 41. between time steps 0 and 30, the destocking levels drop from their peak to values generally below 1. the trend indicates that the most severe livestock removals due to resource insufficiency occur immediately after the simulation begins, followed by a rapid adaptation or adjustment period, and finally a phase of relative stability with minimal destocking. despite these changes, no significant peaks or valleys are detected, and the overall trend remains a continuous upward trajectory, suggesting a progressive widening of disparity in healthy livestock distribution among households throughout the simulation. the median trajectory reaches a plateau near 32 households by step 63, while individual simulation runs show varying levels of saturation, with some runs stabilizing between 17 and 54 households. the average cumulative number of livestock destocked across all households begins at zero at the start of the simulation and exhibits a continuous increasing trend throughout the 100 - year duration, reaching an average final value of approximately 96. median count over the simulation was 15. 27 households, with a standard deviation of 1. 92. notable fluctuations occurred early in the simulation, with significant peaks at time steps 6 and 4, and valleys at time steps 7 and 5. the rolling mann - kendall test indicated a significant increasing trend in the initial phase ( time steps 0 to 10 ), followed by a significant decreasing trend in subsequent phases ( time steps 11 to 65 ). after time step 66, the trend became non - significant, suggesting stabilization in the later phases of the simulation.