TRANSCRIPT: This graph depicts the outcomes of agent-based model simulations, showcasing the proportion of households following the E-RO strategy throughout time. The results indicate that a high proportion of households, approximately 80%, adhere to this strategy during the first year, with a gradual decline until approximately 25% by year 50. During the same period, an increasing number of E-RO households were rigorously supported, resulting in approximately 40% by Year 95, followed by a steady decline throughout the final years. Environmental effects contribute to wide declines in cattle stock, indicating that households were struggling to search for potential environments with soil-friendly nutrients. Pastures free of E-RO households are significantly better in terms of livestock resilience, showing significantly higher levels of protection and resilience during drought (e.g., rainfall 200 units, SD 100). These fluctuations demonstrate the households' sensitivity to ecological instability and underline the E-RO approach's inability to interact with unpredictable weather, which continues to push herds deeper into crisis during the next severe drought.   CONNECTIONS: The spectacular decrease in the proportion of households following the E-RO strategy demonstrates the constraint of traditional non-learning approaches to emergent ecosystems on pastoral land. The critical period was the beginning, up to five years, during which the proportion of houses remained stable. After that, the relationship with the environment changed, and the losses made up a considerable proportion of the population of goes-besides, every other year approximately 100 years. It is understood that although the grazing stock has not been improved through social learning or experiential revelation, the initial resilience of those who took part in the study was, say, 80%, and they had left all of the households following E-RO.   LEARNING: Although this learning is not used in the description of E-RO, these simulations indicate that learning dynamics can have an impact on the rate of change in decision-making strategies. Paying attention to this can help policymakers fill the education gap and inform households to explore learning and change their decisions and outcomes by cooperating on pastureland. The non-learning households could become more resilient if the key groups could provide training and create networks as these can lead to changes in decision-making procedures, which are vital in climate change management.