the model consists of two main sub - models : vegetation and household decision - making, which are linked through a yearly sequence of processes. satisficing - threshold * * : this parameter sets the threshold for satisficing behavior, ranging from 0. number - e - ro * * : this parameter determines the number of e - ro ( baseline behavior ) households. number - e - ro - sl1 * * : this parameter determines the number of social learning single - loop households. the average initial risk attitude of all social learning agents in the simulation remains constant throughout the entire duration of the model run. after timestep 54, the trend stabilizes, and no significant trends are observed in the latter part of the simulation, from timestep 66 to the end. 1911, which is higher than the initial value but significantly lower than the peak observed at timestep 33. the increasing trend becomes statistically significant starting from timestep 33 and continues through to the end of the simulation. the model identifies several inflection points and change points, notably at timesteps 9, 49, 50, and 100, which mark shifts in the trend dynamics. the model identifies key change points at timesteps 20, 55, and 100, indicating shifts in the trend dynamics. however, the trend stabilizes and shows no significant trend in the window from time steps 33 to 43 ( tau = - 0. the oscillation analysis suggests some periodic fluctuations in the latter part of the simulation, but the overall trend remains consistently upward. by the 7th timestep, an inflection point is observed, marking the beginning of a significant upward trend. the most substantial growth occurs early in the simulation, with the number of households engaging in social learning rising sharply. the number of households following the e - ro strategy, which represents non - learning agents, exhibits distinct trends over the simulation period. during this period, the number of e - ro households decreases steadily, with occasional minor fluctuations.