the megafaunal hunting pressure model ( mhpm ) is an agent - based model designed to test hypotheses related to megaherbivore extinction. the model allows users to manipulate parameters to observe how different conditions interact to influence extinction or equilibrium outcomes. initially, there were 20 active bands, and this number did not change at any point during the simulation. the consistency in the number of bands indicates a stable presence of human hunters within the model's environment. early in the simulation, there are minor fluctuations, with slight increases and decreases in energy levels. this downward trend continues, with the energy levels plummeting further to - 38233 units by the end of the simulation. key time steps highlight significant changes in the trend, particularly around the early, middle, and late phases of the simulation. this increasing trend continues steadily, reaching a value of approximately 117 by the midpoint of the simulation. the simulation ultimately reaches a maximum value of 119, demonstrating the cumulative impact of hunting over the extended period. the simulation also exhibits strong oscillatory behavior with a dominant period of 50 ticks, indicating regular fluctuations in the number of births. the model shows strong oscillations with a dominant period of 63 time steps, particularly towards the latter part of the simulation. the early phase of the simulation, up to around time step 1159, exhibits a steep and steady decrease in the female prey population. however, this slight recovery is short - lived, and the population resumes its downward trajectory shortly afterward. throughout the simulation, there is a consistent decline in the number of prey animals, ultimately reaching zero by the end of the simulation period. this high initial value is followed by a rapid and significant decrease in the early stages of the simulation. however, these periods of slower decline or slight increase are short - lived, and the overall trend remains a decrease in total energy. however, these oscillations are superimposed on the overall decreasing trend and do not significantly alter the long - term decline in energy. the decline continues more gradually but consistently through the middle phase of the simulation, with energy levels decreasing at varying rates. notably, there are periods of increasing vegetation cover early in the simulation, followed by phases of decreasing cover. the dominant oscillation period is around 63 time steps, indicating a cyclical pattern in vegetation dynamics.