The agent-based model in question is an extension of the original RAGE (Rangeland Use and Adaptation) model, which simulates the interactions between pastures, livestock, and household livelihoods in a common property grazing system. The absence of peaks and valleys further supports the lack of variation in the initial risk attitude. Initial risk attitude is characterized by a low value of approximately 0.3814. Initial risk attitude is characterized by a low value of approximately 0.3814. Initial risk attitude is characterized by a low value of approximately 0.3814. Initial risk attitude is characterized by a rapid increase in risk attitude, indicating a phase of heightened risk-taking behavior among households. The model's context involves smallholder farmers making decisions about livestock placement on their privately-owned pastures based on observations of pasture states and neighbor behaviors. The primary goals are to evaluate the long-term social-ecological performance of different behavioral types and to study the diffusion of behavioral strategies in a heterogeneous population. The model consists of two main sub-models: Vegetation and Household decision-making, which are linked through a yearly sequence of processes. The parameters of the model are as follows:- **number-households**: Represents the number of households in . The statistical analysis indicates significant decreasing trends in the early and middle phases of the simulation, with no significant trends detected in the later phases. From this point onward, the destocking rate continues to decline more gradually, stabilizing around 0.31 livestock by step 100. The initial phase exhibits significant variability and high destocking rates, which gradually smooth out over time. The rolling Mann-Kendall analysis indicates significant decreasing trends in the early phases (steps 0-32), followed by periods of no significant trend and a brief increasing trend around steps 66-76. The dominant oscillation period is around 49 steps, suggesting cyclical patterns in the destocking behavior. The model's dynamics reflect an initial adjustment phase with high destocking rates, likely due to households adapting to initial conditions and learning from their environment and neighbors, followed by a stabilization phase where destocking rates level off as households reach a more stable state.                                                                                                                                                                                                                      