This is an extension of the original RAGE model where we add learning capabilities to agents, specifically learning-by-doing and social learning (two processes central to adaptive (co-)management). The RAGE model is a multi-agent simulation model that captures feedbacks between pastures, livestock and household livelihood in a common property grazing system. It implements three stylized household behavioral types (traditional TRAD, maximizer MAX and satisficer SAT) which are grounded in social theory and reflect empirical observations. These types can be compared regarding their long-term social-ecological consequences. The types differ in their preferences for livestock, how they value social norms concerning pasture resting and how they are influenced by the behavior of others. Besides the evaluation of the behavioral types, the model allows to adjust a range of ecological and climatic parameters, such as rainfall average and variability, vegetation growth rates or livestock reproduction rate. The model can be evaluated across a range of social, ecological and economic outcome variables, such as average herd size, pasture biomass condition or surviving number of households. Following this ascent, a distinct inflection occurs around step 39, marking a transition to a downward trend. During this phase, which extends through step 65, the average risk attitude declines significantly, indicating a shift towards In the case of large-scale destocking, the system possesses an adaptive capacity to absorb these shocks, allowing households to stabilize their livestock numbers and minimize forced removals within approximately 30 time steps.Gini coefficient for healthy livestockThe Gini coefficient for healthy livestock starts at 0.0 at time step 0 and rises to 0.0726 by time step 100. Between time steps 0 and 10, the value increases gradually, reaching approximately 0.01. From time steps 11 to 40, the growth accelerates, with the coefficient climbing to around 0.025. After time step 51, identified as a change point, the increase becomes steeper, reaching 0.05 by time step 71. In the final phase, from time steps 71 to 100, the Gini coefficient continues to rise but at a slightly slower rate, ending at 0.0726. This trend indicates growing inequality in the distribution of healthy livestock over time. For decision makers, this suggests that the initial homogeneity in livestock health across households diminishes, potentially highlighting the need for interventions to address disparities in livestock management outcomes.The Gini coefficient for livestock health in the distribution of healthy livestock