This agent-based model is an extension of the original RAGE (Rangeland Grazing Ecology) model, which simulates the interactions between pastures, livestock, and household livelihoods in a common property grazing system. The extension focuses on incorporating learning capabilities into the agents, specifically learning-by-doing and social learning, which are central to adaptive (co-)management strategies. The model aims to evaluate the long-term social-ecological consequences of different household behavioral types and the impact of various ecological and climatic parameters on the system. The model is applied to smallholder farmers' decision-making, where each pasture is the private property of the household placed on it, and households make decisions based on observations of their pasture and neighbors. The model consists of two main sub-models: Vegetation and Household decision-making, which are linked through a yearly sequence of processes. The model parameters are categorized into extension model parameters and original model parameters used by the extension model. The extension model introduces new behavioral types and allows for the study of strategy diffusion in a heterogeneous population of learning and non-learning agents. The model also incorporates a risk parameter to represent the change in the behavior of the agents. The change in the behavior of the agents is consistent with The Gini coefficient values range broadly from approximately 0.030 to 0.090, indicating that the Gini coefficient values range broadly from approximately 0.030 to 0.090. The Gini coefficient values range broadly from approximately 0.030 to 0.090. This indicates a high level of inequality in the distribution of healthy livestock across households at the end of the simulation period. The variability in the final values suggests that different household strategies and environmental interactions lead to diverse outcomes in livestock health distribution.Gini coefficient values range broadly from approximately 0.030 to 0.090, indicating a high level of inequality in the distribution of healthy livestock across households at the end of the simulation period.Gini coefficient values range broadly from approximately 0.030 to 0.090.Gini coefficient values range broadly from approximately 0.030 to 0.090.Gini coefficient values range broadly from approximately 0.030 to 0.090.Gini coefficient values range broadly from approximately 0.030 to 0.090.Gini coefficient values range broadly from 0.030 to 0.090.Gini coefficient values range broadly from 0.030 to 0.090.Gini coefficient values range broadly from 0.030 to 0.090.Gini coefficient values range broadly from 0.