the megafaunal hunting pressure model ( mhpm ) is an agent - based model designed to test hypotheses related to the extinction of megaherbivores. the model simulates a simplified grassland environment with human hunters and male and female ungulates. stop - at - max - ticks * * : determines whether the experiment stops when the maximum number of ticks is reached. stop - at - max - herd - size * * : determines whether the experiment stops when the maximum herd size is reached. the model allows users to manipulate these parameters to test various hypotheses related to extinction events. the number of human hunter - gatherer bands in the simulation remains constant throughout the entire duration. suggests a progressive reduction in the energy status of foragers, influenced by ongoing hunting activities and associated costs over time. the cumulative number of female prey animals hunted and killed by forager bands starts at zero and increases rapidly in the initial time steps. ##partum females killed starts at 0 and increases rapidly in the initial phase, reaching approximately 100 by around 500 steps. the cumulative number of births among the prey animal population starts at zero and remains at this level until around 600 time steps. this period likely represents a phase of high interaction between predators and prey, as well as natural mortality factors taking effect. the number of male animals in the simulation begins at 125 and exhibits a rapid decline over the initial 500 time steps. as the simulation progresses beyond 1000 time steps, the number of animals continues to decline gradually, eventually approaching zero. the population dynamics exhibit a long tail, with the number of animals decreasing slowly over an extended period. the total energy of female animals starts at 12, 500 units and declines rapidly over the first 500 time steps. this high initial value indicates a large population of prey animals with substantial energy reserves at the beginning of the simulation. the initial rapid decline slows down temporarily but ultimately leads to the near - complete depletion of the prey population's energy reserves. overall, the system demonstrates a dynamic equilibrium with periodic fluctuations in the availability of green patches.