 The Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model (MHPM) is an agent-based model designed to test hypotheses related to the extinction of megaherbivores . The model simulates a simplified grassland environment with human hunters and male and female ungulates . The landscape is an abstract square universe that wraps at the edges, consisting of a 211x211 patch matrix .  The model allows users to manipulate these parameters to test various hypotheses related to extinction events . The temporal units used in the model are 'ticks,' which can be scaled to any temporal granularity . The landscape consists of an abstract square universe that wraps at the edges, and the patches are unitless but can be imagined in km² based on approximations of daily distance traveled by megaherbivores .  The Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model (MHPM) exhibits a general increasing trend over the simulation period . Trend is marked by several inflection points and change points, suggesting variations in the rate of increase at different time steps . The data series reaches several peaks, with the highest peak value of approximately 123.6667 around the time step 1826, followed by a slight decrease and subsequent smaller peaks .  The Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model (MHPM) shows a clear and consistent decline in the number of male prey animals over time . The data suggests a consistent and significant decrease in the male prey population, ultimately leading to their complete disappearance from the environment . Initially, the population starts at 125 female prey animals, with the population eventually reaching zero by the final tick .  The Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model (MHPM) exhibits a clear overall decreasing trend throughout the simulation . Early in the simulation, the decline is steep, as evidenced by the significant negative slopes in the rolling Mann-Kendall windows . There are brief periods where the trend shifts to a slight increase, as seen from ticks 1392 to 1623 and ticks 1856 to 2087 . Ultimately, the simulation results in the complete extinction of the prey animals by the final tick .  Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model (MHPM) exhibits a relatively stable trend over the simulation period . Energy levels exhibit a series of inflection points, suggesting changes in the rate of decline . By the final tick, the total energy available in prey animals reaches zero, indicating a complete depletion of energy resources within the simulated environment .