Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model (MHPM) is an interactive, agent-based model designed to test megaherbivore extinction hypotheses. The model considers environmental change, human hunting behavior, herd demography, herd movement, animal sexual dimorphism, and animal life history. The total number of human hunter-gatherer bands starts at 20 and remains constant at this value for the entire duration of the simulation. The Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model suggests that under high seasonality conditions and specific foraging parameters, hunting pressure is intense initially but encounters limiting factors such as prey density or movement costs. For decision makers, the initial rapid increase implies that early intervention or monitoring is critical as the majority of extraction occurs within the first 1200 time steps. The Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model suggests that the prey population successfully utilized available resources and avoided immediate extinction despite hunting pressure. The population of male prey animals initiates the simulation at a count of 125 individuals and follows a trajectory of sustained decline, reaching zero by time step 2284. By step 730, the population drops significantly within the first 700 time steps. The total number of prey animals begins at approximately 167 individuals and follows a predominantly downward trajectory, reaching zero by the final time step at 2311. The most rapid decline occurs during the initial phase, where the population decreases from 167 to approximately 11 individuals by tick 730. After tick 1000, the population remains at critically low levels, hovering near single-digit numbers before eventually collapsing completely. The total energy available in prey animals begins at approximately 16,667 units, representing the initial biomass of the introduced herd. This value undergoes a precipitous decline during the first 350 time steps, dropping to roughly 4,100 units. Between time steps 350 and 875, the total energy continues to decrease but exhibits periodic fluctuations with a dominant oscillation period of 63 time steps.