This is an extension of the original RAGE model where we add learning capabilities to agents, specifically learning-by-doing and social learning (two processes central to adaptive (co-)management). The RAGE model is a multi-agent simulation model that captures feedbacks between pastures, livestock and household livelihood in a common property grazing system. It implements three stylized household behavioral types (traditional TRAD, maximizer MAX and satisficer SAT) which are grounded in social theory and reflect empirical observations. These types can be compared regarding their long-term social-ecological consequences. The types differ in their preferences for livestock, how they value social norms concerning pasture resting and how they are influenced by the behavior of others. Besides the evaluation of the behavioral types, the model allows to adjust a range of ecological and climatic parameters, such as rainfall average and variability, vegetation growth rates or livestock reproduction rate. This sharp ascent indicates a strong initial shift towards risk-seeking behavior across the agent population, likely driven by the learning mechanisms and high variance in the simulated rainfall environment. Following this peak, the values show a divergence between different agents; while some maintain a high risk attitude between 0.7 and 0.8, others begin to decline. Between time steps 40 and 60, In the final phase, from timestep 60 and 100, the cumulative destocking continues to grow, reaching a range of approximately 60 to 170 by the end of the simulation. The divergence in destocking levels across households may result from differences in learning behaviors, risk attitudes, or access to resources. This upward trend suggests that households are able to rebuild their herds as the system adjusts, likely due to improved resource availability or refined management strategies. Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â ÂIn the final phase, from timestep 80 to 100, the average total livestock count stabilizes at various levels depending on the household behavior, ranging from approximately 41.0 to 62.0. This stabilization indicates that households have reached a new equilibrium, adapting to the long-term conditions of the simulation. Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 