 adaptation can lead to more consistent and recommended livestock numbers over time. Adaptation can lead to more consistent and recommended livestock numbers over time. Adaptation can lead to more consistent and recommended livestock numbers over time. Adaptation can lead to more consistent and recommended livestock numbers over time. Adaptation can lead to more consistent and recommended livestock numbers over time. Adaptation can lead to more consistent and recommended livestock numbers over time. Adaptation can lead to more consistent and recommended livestock numbers over time. Adaptation can lead to more consistent and recommended livestock numbers over time. Adaptation can lead to more consistent and recommended livestock numbers over time. Adaptation can lead to more consistent and recommended livestock numbers over time. Adaptation can lead to more consistent and recommended livestock numbers over time. Adaptation can lead to more consistent and recommended livestock numbers over time. Adaptation can lead to more consistent and recommended livestock numbers over time. Adaptation can lead to more consistent and recommended livestock numbers over time. Adaptation can lead to more consistent and recommended livestock numbers over time. Adaptation can lead to more consistent and recommended livestock numbers over time. Adaptation can lead to more consistent and recommended livestock numbers over time. Adaptation can lead to more consistent and recommended livestock numbers over time. Adaptation can lead 1 at time step 8. This early rise could be attributed to initial model dynamics or minor fluctuations as the system stabilizes. Following this peak, there is a general decreasing trend in the number of E-RO households. The decline is relatively steady with minor fluctuations, reaching a low of around 14.7 by the end of the simulation at time step 100. Key inflection points occur around time steps 5, 12, 17, 18, 25, 30, 35, 41, 53, 60, 71, 76, 82, 90, and 95, indicating periods where the rate of change in the number of E-RO households shifts. The rolling Mann-Kendall analysis shows significant decreasing trends in the early and middle phases of the simulation, with periods of no significant trend towards the end. This suggests that the decline in E-RO households is more pronounced initially and stabilizes later on. The dominant oscillation period of 49 time steps indicates cyclical patterns in the data, which could reflect periodic influences within the model dynamics. The rolling Mann-Kendall analysis shows significant decreasing trends in the early and middle phases of the simulation, with periods of no significant trend towards the end. This suggests that the decline in E-RO households is more pronounced initially and stabil