the agent - based model aims to simulate the adoption behaviors of milk consumption by the british public from 1974 to 2005. the model includes 1, 000 agents, each part of a social network where influence is a function of interaction probability and agent susceptibility. the model monitors the number of agents consuming mostly whole milk or skimmed / semi - skimmed milk and plots the percentage of majority consumers and the average consumption of each milk type over time. 61 ), cognitive - dissonance - threshold ( range : 0. 0, set to 8 ), number - of - agents ( set to 1000 ), habit - on? this rapid decrease continues more gradually until about step 15, where the consumption stabilizes around 800 units. after step 25, there is a slight decline followed by a small increase around step 30, after which the consumption stabilizes again at around 500 units. this low consumption persists for a brief period before a rapid increase begins around the second time step. following this sharp increase, the consumption rate stabilizes and fluctuates slightly around the 1200 to 1300 units mark from the tenth to the twenty - fifth time step. after the twenty - fifth time step, there is another noticeable increase in consumption, reaching around 1400 units by the thirtieth time step. the increase in the total number of choices reflects a growing adoption of skimmed / semi - skimmed milk over time, indicating a shift in consumer preferences and behaviors influenced by the model's parameters and dynamics. starting from 0 choices at the initial time step, the total number of choices rises steadily and reaches approximately 32, 000 choices by the final time step of 30. after step 25, there is a slight downward trend, and the mean quantity of whole milk consumed further decreases to approximately 500 units by step 30. the mean quantity of skimmed and semi - skimmed milk consumed by agents shows a rapid increase in the early stages of the simulation. following this initial rise, the mean habit factor continues to increase gradually and steadily over the subsequent steps. throughout the entire period, the mean habit factor for whole milk shows a steady and continuous increase, indicating a growing influence of habit on the choice of whole milk over time. this upward trend continues with a steady increase, and by the 20th step, the habit factor is around 1. the mean choice function deviation starts at a value close to 0 and rapidly increases within the first few steps, reaching approximately 0. following this initial sharp rise, the rate of increase slows down, and the deviation continues to grow more gradually. this trend indicates that the variability in choice function scores among agents increases quickly at first and then stabilizes into a more gradual increase over time. the mean value health deviation starts at a low value close to zero and exhibits a rapid increase in the early steps. the mean value environmental deviation starts at a low value close to zero and rapidly increases within the first few steps. this trend indicates that initially, there is a significant change in the environmental values held by agents compared to the values implied by their milk choices, which quickly stabilizes as the simulation progresses.