The agent-based model aims to simulate the adoption behaviors of milk consumption by the British public from 1974 to 2005, focusing on the shift from whole milk to skimmed and semi-skimmed milk. The model explores how perception, habits, and social influence affect individual decision-making processes regarding milk choices. The main outcome is the average weekly consumption of each milk type per person, using both theoretical grounding and empirical data for calibration against observed macro-level data. The model compares two variants with different mechanisms for how agents consider their choices: a threshold-based approach and a probability-based approach. Agents represent adult consumers who make milk choices based on perceived health and environmental characteristics, modified by habit, social influence, and evaluation of previous choices. The model includes 1,000 agents, each part of a social network where they can influence and be influenced by others. The rate of increase remains steady, suggesting a consistent pattern of adoption influenced by the agents' habits, social interactions, and perceptions of health and environmental characteristics. The mean value of 1130.88 and the median value of 1158.97 indicate that, on average, agents choose whole milk around 1131 times cumulatively by the midpoint of the simulation period. The standard deviation of 654.69 The initial rapid decline in the first few steps of the simulation indicates a gradual increase in the consumption quantity. The initial rapid decline in the second few steps of the simulation indicates a gradual increase in the consumption quantity. The initial rapid decline in the second few steps indicates a gradual increase in the consumption quantity. The initial rapid decline in the second few steps indicates a gradual increase in the consumption quantity. The initial rapid decline in the second few steps indicates a gradual increase in the consumption quantity. The initial rapid decline in the second few steps indicates a gradual increase in the consumption quantity. The initial rapid decline in the second few steps indicates a gradual increase in the consumption quantity. The initial rapid decline in the second few steps indicates a gradual increase in the consumption quantity. The initial rapid decline in the second few steps indicates a gradual increase in the consumption quantity. The initial rapid decline in the second few steps indicates a gradual increase in the consumption quantity. The initial rapid decline in the second few steps indicates a gradual increase in the consumption quantity. The initial rapid decline in the second few steps indicates a gradual increase in the consumption quantity. The initial rapid decline in the second few steps indicates a gradual increase in the consumption quantity. The initial rapid decline in the second few steps indicates a gradual increase in the