In our ecological crisis, we often forget that nature provides the remedy.  At first glance it might seem difficult to see how this could be true.  But the medicine is available and with proper planning and care,  we can restore our natural resources.  Here to discuss this, is my next guest, a world-recognized botanical and author, Dr. Jane Smith.  It's wonderful to have you with us.  So, Dr. Jane, help us understand the problem of bioremediation, please.   What is it?  "Well, Ecosystems have evolved over millions of years to defend against pathogens.  "  This includes having resistance gene in their DNA.  We are in a situation where the earth is under constant stress due to thermal fluctuations, droughts, droughts and fires.  This applies to bacteria and earth.  More stress, more mutations occur, more disease, more pathogens.  As the planet dies, the disease are getting worse.  If we can repair and restore the environment and the ecosystems back to function, then nature will take care of everything else.  This is the best hope and we are focusing on that.  Now, the question arises, how do we start?  Well, as you said, Bioremediation is one of the techniques.  We have programs for testing plants in the labs to identify the most resistant and stable species under adverse conditions.  What are the most stress resistant plants and how do we propagate this research?  "How do we achieve the outcomes?  "Dr. Jane, how do we propagate this research?  Well, we have initiatives that standardize the study of plants in the field. We have projects for scanning soil microbial analysis and applying it on a global scale.  The purpose of these projects is to understand how and why adaptation and evolution operate in ecosystems, so we can replicate and scale resilience everywhere.  So, to do this, it looks like there is one major theme: collaboration and innovation. Do you have any patches you would care to share with us, regions where you have observed this working successfully?  "Well, in fact, yes, I can share with you one experience.  Some time ago, a major water pollution problem was discovered in Taiwan. The Keelung Harbor area was heavily polluted with heavy metals. Pollution met the land for two days, as people took samples and acted.  People were not waiting for government approval; they were testing soil samples to figure out the best solution. We were developing a test for soil, and we used it to deploy highly resistant plants into the soil.  Guess what, in one month we got grass growing and grasses clean the water.  In three months water was clean enough to walk in and a little while after that to swim in.  Bringing it full circle and to tie things together, Dr. Jane, what advice would you offer to our viewers?  "Well, this is a fast moving crisis, so we need to fast mode as well.  Collaboration is the key.  To reverse the planet's decline the public needs to come together.  Now as much as I value science, to get collaboration across the whole planet, we need the scientists to try and innovate as fast as the political and public.  We want a global, non-governmental, bioterrorism free survey of all beloved ecosystems, soils and microbes.  We need to think of very fast local solutions, to create precedents, and persuade everyone to adopt the local solutions as global ones.  I want to thank Dr. Jane Smith, who shared very inspiring words. You can follow her work, and read some if her books, at ggoogle.com/skyhive/decade18.  All righty then.  So what do you think Friends?  Any thoughts?  Or should we move along and address something else?  Well, that was enough for me.  I'm all in on this movement.  You are invited to join us.  For now, we part ways.