This agent-based model is an extension of the original RAGE (Rangeland Grazing Ecology) model, which simulates the interactions between pastures, livestock, and household livelihoods in a common property grazing system. The extension focuses on incorporating learning capabilities into the agents, specifically learning-by-doing and social learning, which are central to adaptive (co-)management strategies. The model aims to evaluate the long-term social-ecological consequences of different household behavioral types and the impact of various ecological and climatic parameters on the system. The model is applied to smallholder farmers' decision-making, where each pasture is the private property of the household placed on it, and households make decisions based on observations of their pasture and neighbors. The model consists of two main sub-models: Vegetation and Household decision-making, which are linked through a yearly sequence of processes. The model parameters are categorized into two main sub-models: Vegetation and Household decision-making. Vegetation and Household decision-making, which are linked through a yearly sequence of processes. The model parameters are categorized into extension model parameters and original model parameters used by the extension model. The extension model introduces new behavioral types and allows for the study of strategy diffusion in a heterogeneous  of 0.0239 and variance of 0.0006 suggest relatively low variability in the inequality levels over time. The data shows a continuous increase in inequality, with no detected peaks or valleys, implying a steady rise without significant fluctuations. Inflection points occur at several time steps, notably at indices 8, 13, 15, 20, 25, 37, and 57, indicating changes in the rate of increase. The rolling Mann-Kendall test confirms a significant increasing trend across all time windows, with consistent positive slopes. Change points are identified at time steps 51, 71, and 100, marking notable shifts in the trend. The oscillation summary indicates a dominant period of 49 time steps, with strong oscillations detected towards the latter part of the simulation. This suggests that while the overall trend is increasing, there are periodic fluctuations in the rate of increase, particularly in the later stages. The oscillation summary indicates a dominant period of 49 time steps, with strong oscillations detected towards the latter part of the simulation. The oscillation summary indicates a dominant period of 49 time steps, with strong oscillations detected towards the latter part of the simulation. This suggests that while the overall trend is increasing, there are periodic fluctuations in the rate of increase, particularly in the later stages