the megaherbivore hunting pressure model ( mhpm ) is an agent - based model designed to test hypotheses related to the extinction of megaherbivores. the landscape is a simplified grassland environment with randomly generated patches of grass, male and female ungulates, and human hunters.  the model's landscape is an abstract square universe that wraps at the edges, consisting of a 211x211 patch matrix. the statistical analysis confirms that the mean, median, minimum, and maximum values of the number of foragers are all consistently 20. this initial phase is characterized by a steep upward trend, indicating a high rate of hunting success. the oscillation summary suggests a dominant period of 63 steps, with strong oscillations observed towards the latter part of the simulation. a stabilization phase, reflecting the interactions between hunting pressure and prey population dynamics within the model. this rapid increase indicates a high hunting pressure on postpartum females during the early phase of the simulation. after reaching the peak, there is a noticeable decline in the number of births starting around 1850 ticks, another key change point. the number of male animals in the megaherbivore hunting pressure model ( mhpm ) starts at 125 and exhibits a consistent decreasing trend over time. by the end of the simulation, the number of male animals approaches zero, indicating a near - complete extinction. by around 500 steps, the number of animals has significantly reduced, continuing a downward trend with some fluctuations. the total energy of male animals in the megaherbivore hunting pressure model ( mhpm ) exhibits a clear and consistent decreasing trend over time. the total energy of all animals in the megaherbivore hunting pressure model ( mhpm ) exhibits a pronounced decreasing trend over time. throughout the simulation, there are minor fluctuations and small peaks, but the overall trend remains a consistent decrease in total energy. the system then maintains a relatively stable percentage of green patches around 33 % for the remainder of the simulation, with minor variations.