 The ABM is designed to replicate and understand the adoption behaviors of milk consumption by the British public from 1974 to 2005 . The model aims to explore how perception, habits, and social influence affect an individual's decision-making process regarding milk choice . The main outcome of interest is the average weekly consumption of each milk type per person .  The average weekly consumption of skimmed and semi-skimmed milk per agent starts at approximately 2600 units at the initial time step . There is a sharp decline in consumption within the first 5 steps, dropping to around 1000 units . This rapid decrease continues more gradually until about step 15, where the consumption stabilizes around 700 units . The stabilization period indicates that after the initial shift, consumers have settled into new consumption patterns . Understanding these dynamics can help in designing interventions to promote healthier or more  The mean whole milk quantity consumed by agents shows a clear and consistent declining trend over the steps of the simulation . For decision-makers, this trend implies a steady engagement of the agents in the decision-making process over time . Understanding the key parameters influencing these trends can help in designing effective strategies to encourage healthier and more environmentally friendly milk choices .  The mean habit factor for skimmed and semi-skimmed milk exhibits a consistent upward trend over the 30 steps of the simulation . The trend suggests that over time, consumers are becoming more habituated to choosing these milk types, which could be due to repeated exposure, social influence, or other reinforcing factors . For decision-makers, this implies that strategies aimed at promoting milk should consider the long-term effects of habit formation .  Intervention aimed at influencing milk consumption choices might see rapid initial changes in consumer behavior, followed by a period of stabilization where further changes are minimal . During this period, the agents' choices align more consistently with their environmental values, experts say . For decision-makers, this implies that interventions aimed at changing consumer behavior may see rapid changes in consumption choices .