This is an extension of the original RAGE model where we add learning capabilities to agents, specifically learning-by-doing and social learning (two processes central to adaptive (co-)management). The RAGE model is a multi-agent simulation model that captures feedbacks between pastures, livestock and household livelihood in a common property grazing system. It implements three stylized household behavioral types (traditional TRAD, maximizer MAX and satisficer SAT) which are grounded in social theory and reflect empirical observations. These types can be compared regarding their long-term social-ecological consequences. The types differ in their preferences for livestock, how they value social norms concerning pasture resting and how they are influenced by the behavior of others. Besides the evaluation of the behavioral types, the model allows to adjust a range of ecological and climatic parameters, such as rainfall average and variability, vegetation growth rates or livestock reproduction rate. The model can be evaluated across a range of social, ecological and economic outcome variables, such as average herd size, pasture biomass condition or surviving number of households. In addition, the model allows to adjust the trajectories of the behavior of the agents. The trajectories largely stabilize, with values climbing to a peak range of approximately 0.5 to 0.8 by step  livestock distribution is minimal and stable. Around time step 20, a gradual increase in inequality begins, with the Gini Coefficient values slowly rising to approximately 0.030 by time step 40. From time step 40 to 60, the increase in inequality accelerates, reaching values between 0.030 and 0.060. This period indicates a growing disparity in the distribution of healthy livestock among households. Beyond time step 60, the divergence in trajectories becomes more pronounced, with the Gini Coefficient values spreading across a wider range, ultimately varying between approximately 0.030 and 0.095 by time step 100. This increasing divergence suggests that household-level strategies related to risk attitudes and learning capabilities, particularly the baseline behavior (E-RO), learning-by-doing (E-LBD), and social learning (E-RO-SL1), contribute to significant long-term differences in livestock outcomes. In the initial phase of the simulation, the average cumulative number of livestock destocked across all households is approximately 18 households, with some households reaching a plateau of 18 households by timestep 25, while others reaching a plateau of 48 households depending on the simulation run. This initial phase shows significant variability, with some households reaching a plateau of 18 households by timestep 25