the model simulates a simplified grassland environment with human hunters and male and female ungulates . the goal is to understand how environmental conditions, human hunting behavior, and animal life history interact to influence extinction events or create equilibrium conditions . the model allows users to manipulate these parameters to test various hypotheses related to extinction events . the temporal units used in the model are 'ticks,' which can be scaled to any temporal granularity . the cumulative number of postpartum female prey animals hunted and killed by forager bands begins at zero and exhibits a rapid increase during the initial phase of the simulation . this early rise indicates an initial phase where hunting pressure is high, possibly due to the abundance of prey and the immediate energy needs of the foragers . following this peak, the trend shows minor fluctuations but generally stabilizes, indicating a potential equilibrium between hunting pressure and prey availability . the overall trend shows an initial rapid increase in deaths followed by a stabilization, implying that the prey population and foragers may have reached an equilibrium . this suggests that initial conditions significantly impact early mortality rates, but over time, the system may stabilize . the number of male prey animals in the simulation begins at 125 and exhibits a rapid decline in the initial phase, dropping significantly within the first few hundred ticks . the combined total energy available in the population of male prey animals begins at 12,500 units . this value experiences a rapid decline initially, dropping to approximately 11,608 units by the 65th tick . the energy levels exhibit a series of fluctuations with notable peaks and valleys . rapid initial decline underscores the need for interventions to balance predation and resource availability to prevent population collapse . the percentage of landscape patches that are vegetated starts at approximately 33% and remains relatively stable throughout the simulation .