The Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model (MHPM) is an interactive, agent-based model designed to conduct experiments to test megaherbivore extinction hypotheses. The model considers environmental change, human hunting behavior, herd demography, herd movement, animal sexual dimorphism, and animal life history. The landscape consists of an abstract square universe that wraps at the edges on a 211x211 patch matrix. The goals are to manipulate socio-natural dynamics to observe how environmental conditions, human hunting, and animal life history interact to either accelerate or buffer extinction or create equilibrium conditions. Hunters follow dynamic optimal foraging theory, balancing energy status, prey value, density, and costs. Ungulates are sexually dimorphic, reproduce, age, and move as herds. The environment controls fodder density, regrowth, and seasonality.Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters: Parameters- init-foragers: Range 0.0 to 100.0, The number of female prey animals in the Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model starts at 125 and declines over time, eventually reaching zero. The number of female prey animals in the Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model starts at 125 and declines over time, eventually reaching zero. The number of female prey animals in the Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model starts at 125 and declines over time, eventually reaching zero. The decline is rapid at first, with a significant decrease observed within the first 1000 steps. After this initial drop, the rate of decline slows, and the population stabilizes at low levels before eventually reaching extinction. The mean number of female animals across all steps is approximately 16.48, with a median of 1. The variability in the number of female animals is high, as indicated by a standard deviation of 31.55. The maximum population of 125 is observed at the start, and the minimum of 0 is reached by the final step. There are several minor peaks and valleys in the later stages, but these do not significantly alter the overall trend of decline leading to extinction. The number of female prey animals in the Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model starts at 125 and declines over time, eventually reaching zero. The number of female prey animals in the Megafaunal