the context involves 60 households managing pastures on private property, with agents deciding how many livestock to stock annually. 0 ; set to 0 ) * * : agent weight for social learning influence ( e - ro - sl1 agents override this ). behavioral - type ( e - ro ) * * : dominant type in homogeneous settings ; e - lbd and e - ro - sl1 require inhomogeneity. parameters like satisficing - threshold and resting - threshold remain unused in e - ro configurations but allow testing alternative strategies. the model focuses on e - ro under homogeneous conditions with climatic variability, though parameters are ready for heterogeneous comparisons. com domain name, to confirm the identity of the original owner, matter of fact domain names are generally purchased soon after issuance. wheni entered maxbuy, i used the settlement account on the reserve, and the other party sent the payment on time. what are the preferences / considerations when choosing domain names, targeting the working population generally? £120 - 150 is anapable a preliminary assessment of the outlay based in domains of a purchased volume. most of the scale on the existing market is focused solely on the website, consequently, there is not much transparency. in principle, the smaller domestics are not notarised, were governments complete purchase, are they googling three registration in half a year? satisficing agents may conserve during resource shortages, leading to slightly higher values around step 30, as seen in this phase. in summary, the mean green biomass levels provide decision - makers with insights into how different strategies interact with environmental factors. average number of households that have been destocked due to insufficient resources from year 0 - 100. initially ( steps 0 - 32 ), participation starts at 0 and increases by 0 - 2 households per step, with dataset 7 showing the fastest growth. to wide declines in cattle stock, indicating that households were struggling to search for potential environments with soil - friendly nutrients. the critical period was the beginning, up to five years, during which the proportion of houses remained stable.