the megaherbivore hunting pressure model ( mhpm ) is an agent - based model designed to test hypotheses related to the extinction of megaherbivores. the model allows users to manipulate various parameters to establish the socio - natural dynamics of the experiment matrix. external - mortality * * : the probability of an animal dying from external causes at each time step. stop - at - max - ticks * * : determines whether the experiment stops when the maximum number of ticks is reached. hunters are embedded with logic approximating dynamic optimal foraging theory, making foraging decisions based on environmental feedback. finally, the total energy of foragers plummets to around - 38229 units by the end of the simulation at 2310 steps. the cumulative number of male prey animals hunted and killed by forager bands starts at zero and increases rapidly over the first 500 time steps. the rate of increase slows down significantly after this initial phase, indicating a reduction in the male prey population as hunting continues. around 475 time steps, a change point is observed, marking a transition to a more gradual increase in the cumulative count. the presence of multiple peaks and valleys further supports the idea of fluctuating conditions influencing birth rates. significant increasing and decreasing trends in different windows, highlighting periods of significant change in the birth rates. the number of male animals in the simulation starts at 125 and exhibits a rapid decline in the initial 500 time steps, reaching approximately 10. steep decline, the number of female animals continues to decrease but at a slower rate, reaching approximately 5 by around 1000 time steps. by the end of the simulation, the number of female animals approaches zero, indicating a near - complete extinction event. significant reduction in the population or energy reserves of male animals, potentially due to high initial hunting pressure or environmental stress. the rolling mann - kendall test confirms a consistent decreasing trend across various windows, reinforcing the overall decline in total energy. between 500 and 1, 000 time steps, the decline in total energy continues but at a slower rate, stabilizing briefly around 1, 000 units. the dominant oscillation period of 63 time steps may correspond to an annual cycle within the simulation, influencing the prey population dynamics. 