The Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model (MHPM) is an agent-based model designed to test hypotheses related to the extinction of megaherbivores. The model simulates a simplified grassland environment with human hunters and male and female ungulates. The goal is to understand how environmental conditions, human hunting behavior, and animal life history interact to influence extinction events or create equilibrium conditions. The model allows users to manipulate various parameters to establish different socio-natural dynamics and observe the outcomes. The temporal units used in the model are 'ticks,' which can be scaled to any temporal granularity. The landscape consists of an abstract square universe that wraps at the edges, and the patches are unitless but can be imagined in km² based on approximations of daily distance traveled by megaherbivores. The model includes summary statistics that are shown as continuous line graphs, reflecting data from each tick. These statistics include the number of prey items taken per 10 ticks, the proportion of grazed to ungrazed grass, the proportion of grazed to ungrazed grass, and the number of animals in the environment. The model includes summary statistics that are shown as continuous line graphs. The model includes summary statistics that are shown as continuous line graphs . Notable peaks occur around the 730th, 709th, and 803rd ticks, although these peaks are relatively small compared to the initial population size. The population continues to decline steadily, with minor oscillations, until it reaches zero by the 2284th tick. The overall trend is a consistent decrease in the number of male prey animals, with the most significant changes occurring in the early stages of the simulation. The periodic fluctuations suggest some underlying cyclic behavior, possibly related to seasonal variations or predation patterns, but the dominant trend remains a steady decline to extinction.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Around the 376 to 410 time steps, there are brief periods of decreasing trends, particularly around the 376 to 410 time steps, suggesting minor fluctuations in the energy dynamics during this period. The peaks and valleys are relatively close in value, indicating small oscillations in the energy levels. The inflection points identified at various time steps suggest changes in the rate of energy decline, with notable points at 299, 472, 506, and other subsequent time steps. The rolling Mann-Kendall analysis indicates a consistent decreasing trend in energy levels across multiple windows, with significant decreases noted in the initial windows and more moderate changes in later windows. There are brief periods of increasing trends, particularly around the 1160 to 1391 and 1856 to 2087 time steps, suggesting temporary recoveries or stabilizations in energy levels. The dominant oscillation period of 63 time steps indicates a cyclical pattern in the energy levels, indicating a cyclical pattern in the energy dynamics.          The simulation exhibits several inflection points, indicating changes in the rate of energy available in all prey animals within the simulation.          The simulation exhibits several inflection points, indicating changes in the rate of energy available in all prey animals within the simulation.          The simulation exhibits