This is an extension of the original RAGE model where we add learning capabilities to agents, specifically learning-by-doing and social learning (two processes central to adaptive (co-)management). The RAGE model is a multi-agent simulation model that captures feedbacks between pastures, livestock and household livelihood in a common property grazing system. It implements three stylized household behavioral types (traditional TRAD, maximizer MAX and satisficer SAT) which are grounded in social theory and reflect empirical observations. These types can be compared regarding their long-term social-ecological consequences. The types differ in their preferences for livestock, how they value social norms concerning pasture resting and how they are influenced by the behavior of others. Following this initial surge, the values largely stabilize with minor fluctuations until around the 40th time step. A significant divergence occurs shortly after the 40th time step, where a portion of the trajectories sharply declines, dropping below zero and settling between -0.2 and -0.35 by the 60th time step. Concurrently, the remaining trajectories maintain higher values, plateauing between 0.0 and 0.8 for the remainder of the simulation up to the 100th time step. This split indicates that the heterogeneous population of agents diver The Gini coefficient for healthy livestock starts at 0 across all simulations at time step 0, indicating an initially equal distribution of livestock wealth. The Gini coefficient for healthy livestock starts at 0 across all simulations at time step 0, indicating an initially equal distribution. A gradual increase begins between steps 0 and 40, with most simulations remaining below 0.015. After step 40, the Gini coefficient accelerates rapidly, diverging into two distinct groups of trajectories. By step 60, values range approximately between 0.020 and 0.045. In the final 40 steps, the divergence widens significantly, resulting in Gini coefficients at step 100 ranging from approximately 0.030 to 0.095. The lower-bound simulations show a steady, modest increase in inequality, while the upper-bound simulations exhibit an exponential rise in disparity. This implies that while some households manage to maintain a relatively equitable distribution of livestock wealth, others experience substantial stratification, suggesting that learning behaviors (specifically E-RO, E-LBD, and E-RO-SL1 under these parameters) combined with risk attitudes and ecological noise can lead to varied social outcomes.The number of households engaging in social learning exhibits a rapid increase in the initial phase of the simulation, followed by a stabilization