the model consists of two main sub - models : vegetation and household decision - making, which are linked through a yearly sequence of processes. the parameters of the model are as follows : - * * number - households * * : represents the number of households in the model. the model allows for the evaluation of various ecological and climatic parameters, as well as social, ecological, and economic outcome variables. the mean household initial risk attitude in the model remains constant over the 100 steps of the simulation. the majority of the values are clustered around specific points, indicating distinct groups of households with different initial risk attitudes. from step 40 onwards, the mean reserve biomass continues to rise more sharply, eventually plateauing around step 60. the simulations of the agent - based model show distinct trends in the mean green biomass over a series of 100 steps. following this initial decline, the mean green biomass remains relatively stable with minor fluctuations until around step 40. this upward trend suggests a recovery or growth phase in livestock numbers, potentially due to adaptive management practices or favorable conditions. over the first 20 steps, the gini coefficient increases gradually, suggesting a slow divergence in livestock distribution. in the final segment from step 80 to step 100, the gini coefficient continues to rise, with some simulations approaching values close to 0. for decision makers, these trends imply that over time, the distribution of healthy livestock becomes increasingly unequal among households. the simulations of the agent - based model show a general trend of increasing mean destock total of households over time. following this rapid increase, the rate of destocking slows down, and the curves begin to plateau, suggesting a stabilization phase. following this peak, the number of non - learning households stabilizes around 40 and remains relatively constant until approximately step 40. suggests that while non - learning behaviors may not dominate in the long run, they still hold a persistent presence within the population.