The megafaunal hunting pressure model (mhpm) is an interactive, agent - based model designed to conduct experiments to test megaherbivore extinction hypotheses. The model considers environmental change, human hunting behavior, herd demography, herd movement, animal sexual dimorphism, and animal life history. The goals are to manipulate socio - natural dynamics to observe how environmental conditions, human hunting, and animal life history interact to either accelerate or buffer extinction or create equilibrium conditions. 025 - age - of - senescence : range 0. 0, set 7300 - ticks - per - year : range 0. 0, set 365 - animals - gain - from - food : range 0. 5 - animals - starvation - threshold : range 0. 0, set 3 - stop - at - max - ticks : range none provided, set true - stop - at - max - herd - size : range none provided, set false - grass - growth : range none provided, set true - keep - initial - grass - pattern : range none provided, set true - imortal - foragers : range none provided, set true - food - storage : range none provided, set true - max - ticks : range none provided, set 73000 - max - herd - size : range none provided, set 500 the number of active human hunter - gatherer bands remains constant throughout the entire simulation, maintaining a steady value of 20 from the initial step to the final step. Analysis indicates a significant decreasing trend in the cumulative rate of new kills between steps 1856 and 2087, indicating the system has reached a state where the number of male animals hunted has effectively stabilized or the available population of males has been depleted to a point where further hunting is negligible. The rate of increase subsequently moderates as the curve approaches an asymptote, stabilizing near 120 between time steps 1300 and 1600. The cumulative number of postpartum female prey animals hunted begins at zero and increases steadily until reaching a plateau between approximately 116 and 119. The cumulative number of births in the prey population exhibits stepwise growth over time, with distinct intervals of stability punctuated by sudden increases. The cumulative mortality curve exhibits a distinct logistic growth pattern, characterized by an initial phase of exponential increase followed by a deceleration toward an asymptotic plateau. A significant change in the rate of accumulation occurs around the 1200 - step mark, where the trajectory transitions from a steep ascent to a much flatter incline. The number of male prey animals in the megafaunal hunting pressure model starts at 125 and declines monotonically across all observed time steps, eventually reaching zero. At time step 730, which corresponds to two years given the model ’ s tick - per - year setting of 365, the population remains extremely low, indicating intense throughout the simulation, the population exhibits minor oscillations, with a dominant period of approximately 63 time steps, likely reflecting seasonal dynamics in the environment. The number of female prey animals in the megafaunal hunting pressure model starts at 125 and declines over time, eventually reaching zero. By step 1000, the total animal count drops below 3 in the majority of runs, and by the final recorded step at 2311, the mean animal count reaches zero, indicating complete extinction across all matched simulation series. The dominant oscillation period of approximately 63 steps suggests that seasonal variation plays a role in temporarily affecting foraging success, prey reproduction, or mortality rates, though these effects are insufficient to counteract the long - term extinction trajectory the total energy of female prey animals starts at 12, 500 units and follows a steep decline over the initial 400 time steps, reaching values near 2, 200 units by approximately the 380th step. Between the 380th and 500th time steps, there is a period of relative stabilization where energy values fluctuate around 2, 100 to 2, 200 units, marked by minor oscillations. After the 500th time step, the decline resumes, though less steeply, with the aggregate mean energy dropping to below 1, 000 units by the 700th step. Multiple minor increases in energy are observed between the 700th and 1500th steps, yet these are short - lived, followed by continued downward trends. ##ction points observed throughout the trend indicate shifts in the rate of decline, suggesting potential changes in the interaction dynamics between the foragers and the prey or environmental factors influencing prey energy accumulation. Subtle oscillations are observed with a dominant periodicity of approximately 63 steps, suggesting recurring environmental or behavioral dynamics influencing fodder availability. Statistical analysis reveals initial increasing trends in vegetation availability between steps 0 and 1623, followed by a shift to decreasing trends from step 1624 onwards. These changes reflect shifts in underlying socio - natural interactions, such as alterations in foraging pressure, herd behavior, or environmental regeneration rates.