The agent-based model aims to simulate the adoption behaviors of milk alternatives. The agent-based model aims to simulate the adoption behaviors of milk consumption by the British public from 1974 to 2005, focusing on the shift from whole milk to skimmed and semi-skimmed milk. The model explores how perception, habits, and social influence affect individual decision-making processes regarding milk choices. The main outcome is the average weekly consumption of each milk type per person, using both theoretical grounding and empirical data for calibration against observed macro-level data. The model compares two variants with different mechanisms for how agents consider their choices: a threshold-based approach and a probability-based approach. Agents represent adult consumers who make milk choices based on perceived health and environmental characteristics, modified by habit, social influence, and evaluation of previous choices. The model includes 1,000 agents, each part of a social network The initial rapid decline indicates a growing discrepancy between the agents' held environmental values and the implied values by their milk choices starts at 0.0000 and exhibits a consistent increasing trend throughout the simulation period. This trend indicates a growing discrepancy between the perceived health values of milk types and the actual choices made by the agents over time. The initial rapid decline indicates a growing discrepancy between the perceived health values of milk types and the actual choices made by the agents over time. The initial rapid decline indicates a growing discrepancy between the perceived health values of milk types and the actual choices made by the agents over time. The initial rapid decline indicates a growing discrepancy between the perceived health values of milk types and the actual choices made by the agents over time. The initial rapid decline indicates a growing discrepancy between the perceived health values of milk types and the actual choices made by the agents over time. The initial rapid decline indicates a