Implications of behavioral change for the resilience of pastoral systems—Lessons from an agent-based model

Gunnar Dressler, Jürgen Groeneveld, Carsten M. Buchmann, Cheng Guo, Niklas Hase, Jule Thober, Karin Frank, Birgit Müller

doi:10.1016/j.ecocom.2018.06.002

Highlights

• We develop a multi-agent model to analyze behavioral change of pastoralist households.
• Household types are based on behavioral theories and empirical observations.
• Household behavior can drastically alter long-term social-ecological system dynamics.
• Social norms can be a generating mechanism for resilience.
• SES-research should give greater attention to the impact of human decision-making.

Abstract

In many dryland regions, traditional pastoral land use strategies are exposed to various drivers such as demographic or socio-economic change. This may lead to an adjustment of livelihood strategies and behavior of pastoral households, involving a change in attitudes toward livestock, pasture condition and social norms. We use an agent-based model to examine long-term social-ecological consequences and implications for system resilience of such behavioral changes (e.g., giving up a social norm). The model captures feedback between pastures, livestock and household livelihood in a common property grazing system. We systematically compare three stylized household behavioral types (traditional, maximizer and satisficer) that differ in their preferences for livestock, their compliance with social norms on pasture resting and how they are influenced by the behavior of others. Simulation results show that the traditional, norm-abiding household type maintains the pasture condition, provided that overall household numbers do not exceed a critical threshold. In contrast, a switch to a maximizer type that ignores norms may lead to long-term pasture degradation and livestock loss, pushing the system to an undesirable state. A change toward a new satisficing household type that constrains its herd size while diversifying its income sources can lead to improved pasture conditions and higher total livestock numbers, even with increased household numbers. We conclude that changes in household behavior have strong implications for long-term social-ecological system dynamics and have to be considered to assess the resilience of pastoral common property systems.

Introduction

Approximately 40% of the world's surface is covered by drylands (UNCCD, 2010) that provide the livelihood for approximately two billion people. In these resource-scarce regions, pastoralism is a main way of life that allows households to cope with the characteristic environmental variability of dry rangelands (Krätli et al., 2013). Moreover, it is most often the only relevant way of food production in marginal lands (Reid et al., 2014), as it is better adapted to the climate than crop farming is. However, to avoid pasture degradation, appropriate grazing strategies are needed. Pasture resting is one important component of these strategies and has been in place for centuries. It has become a social norm in formal or informal regulations, such as the declaration of areas of drought reserves in Namibia (Müller et al., 2007a) or pasture access regimes of the Agdal in Morocco (Dominguez et al., 2012). However, in many regions, such traditional norms are at stake as a result of ongoing transition processes in the last decades. Liberalization trends since the 1980s have led to an opening of national economies and markets. This has given rise to the privatization of land and property (Gertel, 2015) but also to a change in the economic orientation of many pastoral households. Alongside these economic transformations, many rangeland territories are undergoing serious demographic transitions. A significant population increase in many regions leads to less land being available for pastoralists (Gruschke, 2011, Pricope et al., 2013, Wario et al., 2016). Population growth often also comes along with an expansion of agricultural land into former grazing areas, resulting in a growing scarcity of pastures for the herds (McPeak et al., 2015, Dressler et al., 2016). Together, these changes challenge the livelihood of pastoralists and raise the question whether traditional pastoralist strategies are still viable (Robinson and Berkes, 2010, Devereux and Scoones, 2008, Sandford, 2007) or how they should be adjusted to cope with the impacts of land use change in a sustainable way.

Pastoralists' strategies traditionally valued livestock as a symbol of wealth and aimed at large herd sizes (Roth, 1996, Western and Finch, 1986). However, in the course of economic liberalization, behavioral attitudes may change, too, causing customary institutions and regulations to lose their influence (Gertel, 2015, Ruttan and Borgerhoff Mulder, 1999). This affects the dynamics of the social-ecological system (SES) in an unknown way, since the interdependence of household behavior and its impact on land use sustainability is complex and not well understood (cf. Thébaud and Batterbury, 2001 for the Sahel region). From a systems perspective, we can analyze the impact of changes in household behavior taking a resilience perspective. Following the definition given by Cumming et al. (2005), resilience is "the ability of the system to maintain its identity in the face of internal change and external shocks and disturbances". Here, the 'identity' of a system is characterized by four aspects: a) the components that the system is made up of, b) the relationships between these components, c) the sources of innovation that allow the system to generate change or novelty, and d) the sources of continuity that enable the system to maintain its identity through space and time (Cumming et al., 2005). By identifying the elements that make up the system's identity and possible alternative future states that indicate a loss of identity, we can assess the resilience of the SES in the future.

To explore the implications of changes in behavioral strategies for the future state of the SES, simulation modeling is a powerful approach. However, in the context of models, especially in land use science, human behavior is often not considered or is considered only in a simplified manner. Crooks et al. (2008) state that the implementation of decision models is often ad hoc and rarely grounded in theory. In a recent quantitative review, Groeneveld et al. (2017) underpin this statement: they find that in the majority of models human decision-making is not explicitly based on a theory, and the single most often used theory is the expected utility theory. Thus, agents are assumed to be selfish rational actors who maximize their personal utility based on stable preferences, perfect knowledge and unlimited cognitive abilities (Monroe, 2001). Humans, however, rarely act fully rational: they have limited cognitive abilities and often rely on simple heuristics to make decisions (Gigerenzer and Goldstein, 1996, Levine et al., 2015). Furthermore, the rational actor approach completely ignores the social dimension of human decision-making such as social learning, imitation or norms (Levine et al., 2015).

Several modeling studies have already addressed the interplay of pastoral land use and environmental dynamics, e.g., the effects of climate change and droughts on pastoralists' livelihood security (Martin et al., 2016, Martin et al., 2014), trade-offs between wealth allocation in a migratory pastoralist system in Kazakhstan (Milner-Gulland et al., 2006), the emergence of cooperation in and resilience of a communal livestock production system (Rasch et al., 2016, Rasch et al., 2017) or on mechanisms of coexistence of wealthy and poor herders in a mobile pastoralist system in Mongolia (Okayasu et al., 2010). However, there is still a lack of knowledge to what degree more refined models of human behavior can adequately capture the observed behavioral changes and how these changes influence SES dynamics. We aim to contribute to these questions by investigating the consequences of behavioral change in pastoral societies, using a social-ecological agent-based model (ABM). The model is designed as a virtual lab (Dibble, 2006, Seppelt et al., 2013, Zurell et al., 2010) that emphasizes the dynamics of and feedbacks between household behavior, pastures and livestock. We model a stylized common property grazing system in which households follow a certain behavioral type that specifies how they choose pastures on which they relocate, feed and breed their herds. We consider three household behavioral types that reflect empirically observed trends of behavioral change in different dryland regions (detailed in Section 2) and that are conceptualized in the model using behavioral theories (detailed on Section 3.4). We specifically use the theory of descriptive norms—the influence of perceiving what other people do (Cialdini et al., 1990)—to design three types that differ in their preferences for livestock numbers, how they value social norms and how they are influenced by the behavior of others. Using the model, we assess the social-ecological consequences of scenarios of behavioral and demographic change and address the following research questions:

1. Under which demographic conditions (number of pastoralist households) do differences in decision-making matter, i.e., when do the behavioral types lead to the same or to different social-ecological consequences?
2. When can behavioral types increase the risk for long-term negative effects such as pasture degradation and livestock loss, and under which conditions might such a collapse be prevailed?
3. How does behavioral change affect the resilience of the SES over the long term?

To address these questions, we take a stepwise approach. First, we analyze all three behavioral types separately with respect to demographic change. In a second step, we comparatively assess populations that differ in their composition of household behavioral types to simulate the effects of behavioral change within the pastoralist community.

Empirical background and motivation of pastoralist behavioral types

In our model, we implement three behavioral types that reflect—in a simplified representation—livelihood strategies of pastoralist households as they were in the past and the direction in which they are evolving currently. This section provides empirical motivation for these three types and how we conceptualize them in our study.

Traditionally, pastoralists have always valued livestock, as it constitutes the main asset to secure their livelihoods. However, pastoralists are also aware of the importance of pasture resting for the regeneration of forage biomass.

Methods

In the following, we describe the simulation model in a structured form, based on the ODD+D protocol (Müller et al., 2013). A complete protocol including the description of the submodels can be found in the appendix.

System dynamics over time

First, we present one exemplary simulation run for populations of households of the same behavioral type over 100 years to illustrate the general model dynamics. The system starts in a completely non-grazed state with 10 animals per household. Livestock accumulates at the beginning of the simulation up to a maximum, where the carrying capacity in terms of biomass is reached. The cumulative livestock in a population of MAX, respectively TRAD households, reaches a higher peak.

The value of traditional strategies in a changing world

With this study, we investigated the influence of human behavior on the resilience of a semi-arid pastoralist system. We implemented three household behavioral types that reflect—in a simplified representation—livelihood strategies of pastoralist households as they were in the past (TRAD) and the direction in which they are evolving currently (MAX, SAT). We have seen that these behavioral types represent integral aspects of the identity of the system and that a change from one type to another can have severe consequences for the system state.

Acknowledgments

We acknowledge financial support for meetings of our working group from the National Socio-Environmental Synthesis Center in Annapolis, USA (SESYNC), the Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research (UFZ) in Leipzig, Germany, and the German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv), Leipzig. GD, BM and NH acknowledge financial support by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research–BMBF within the Junior Research Group POLISES [grant number 01LN1315A]. CB and CG acknowledge support from the BMBF [grant number 01LN1304A].

References

L. Berkowitz, Social norms, feelings, and other factors affecting helping and altruism
A. Crooks et al., Key challenges in agent-based modelling for geospatial simulation, Comput. Environ. Urban Syst. (2008)
C. Dibble, Computational Laboratories for Spatial Agent-Based Models
G. Feola et al., Towards an improved understanding of farmers' behaviour: the integrative agent-centred (IAC) framework, Ecol. Econ. (2010)
M.J. Goldman et al., Adaptive capacity in Tanzanian Maasailand: changing strategies to cope with drought in fragmented landscapes, Global Environ. Change (2013)
J. Groeneveld et al., Theoretical foundations of human decision-making in agent-based land use models – a review, Environ. Modell. Softw. (2017)
L. Hein, The impacts of grazing and rainfall variability on the dynamics of a Sahelian rangeland, J. Arid Environ. (2006)
N.T. Hobbs et al., Fragmentation of rangelands: implications for humans, animals, and landscapes, Global Environ. Change (2008)
J. Levine et al., From rational actor to efficient complexity manager: Exorcising the ghost of Homo economicus with a unified synthesis of cognition research, Ecol. Econ. (2015)
F. López-i-Gelats et al., What drives the vulnerability of pastoralists to global environmental change? A qualitative meta-analysis, Global Environ. Change (2016)
