the model aims to explore how perception, habits, and social influence affect an individual's decision - making process regarding milk choice. alt - health - mean - initial * * : this represents the initial mean health perception of alternative milk types. cognitive - dissonance - threshold * * : this is the threshold for cognitive dissonance, which affects how agents evaluate their choices. by around the 20th time step, the consumption rate stabilizes somewhat, fluctuating around a lower average. the average weekly consumption of skimmed and semi - skimmed milk per agent begins at a very low value of approximately 5. throughout the mid - section of the simulation, the consumption values exhibit some fluctuations but generally stabilize around a high average. over the first few time steps, there is a rapid increase in the number of choices for skimmed or semi - skimmed milk. 6667 indicate some variability in the number of choices made at different time steps, but the overall trend remains steadily increasing. the change point detected at index 32 corresponds to the end of the simulation, marking the final value of 32, 000 choices. following this peak, the consumption levels exhibit some fluctuations but generally stabilize around a high mean value. slight declines in consumption, which could be due to temporary resistance or fluctuations in social influence. throughout the simulation, there are several inflection points, indicating changes in the trend of milk consumption. the mean factor applied to the skimmed and semi - skimmed milk choice function due to habit starts at an initial value of 1. this period of growth continues, with the mean factor rising more rapidly between the fifteenth and twenty - fourth time steps. this consistent rise suggests a growing divergence in the choice function scores among agents as the simulation progresses. the mean deviation between the agents'held environmental values and the implied values by their milk choices starts at 0. following this peak, the mean deviation remains relatively stable, fluctuating slightly around the value of 13.