the megafaunal hunting pressure model ( mhpm ) is an agent - based model designed to test hypotheses related to the extinction of megaherbivores. the model simulates a simplified grassland environment with human hunters and male and female ungulates. stop - at - max - ticks * * : determines whether the experiment stops when the maximum number of ticks is reached. stop - at - max - herd - size * * : determines whether the experiment stops when the maximum herd size is reached. the model allows users to manipulate these parameters to test various hypotheses related to extinction events. after 500 time steps, the total energy begins to decline steadily, indicating a gradual decrease in the energy status of the foragers. this rapid initial increase suggests that male prey are highly accessible or vulnerable to hunting pressure early in the simulation. by around 1000 time steps, the cumulative number of males killed stabilizes around 120, with minimal increases observed beyond this point. the cumulative number of births among the prey animal population starts at zero and remains constant until around 700 time steps. after this steep rise, the rate of increase in the number of deaths slows down, eventually plateauing around 250 deaths by the 2000 - step mark. over the first 500 steps, there is a rapid decline in the number of male animals, dropping to around 40. between 500 and 1000 steps, the decline continues but at a slower rate, with the number of female animals reducing to about 10 individuals. environmental conditions, hunting pressure, or animal life history traits, the female population is likely to face extinction. this sharp decline suggests a significant event or change in the environment that drastically affects the energy reserves of the male animals. following this initial decline, the energy levels continue to decrease but at a slower rate, stabilizing around 500 units by the 2, 000th time step. following this rapid decline, the energy levels continue to decrease more gradually, stabilizing near zero around the 2, 000 time step mark. the percentage of green patches stabilizes and remains relatively constant until around time step 500. at this point, there is a sudden and significant drop in the percentage of green patches to approximately 28 %.