The overall objective of the agent-based model is to reproduce adoption behaviours of milk consumption by the British public (1974-2005), by replicating individual preferences and decision factors. Specifically, the goal of the model is to explore the influence of perception, habits and social influence in an individual’s decision-making process of milk choice. The model looks to replicate the substitution of whole milk for skimmed and semi-skimmed milk from the 1970s onwards. The main outcome reported here is the average weekly consumption of each milk type per person. The simulation uses both a theoretical grounding and empirical data to inform the ABM, with calibration performed against observed macro level data. 

In particular, the study conducts an experiment to compare the performance of two model variants in reproducing overserved milk consumption trends. These variants present different mechanisms for how agents become disposed to consider their choices, representing a threshold based, and a probability-based approach.
Decision-making follows a basic structure of: agent perception of choice characteristics, the triggering, or not, of disposition to consider alternatives, a set of scored choice functions made up of the perceived characteristics and modulated by habit and social influence, and finally, choice evaluation where agents consider the impact of their choices and may adjust their future decisions.

The agents in the model represent adult consumers who occupy a random position in an information environment. Each agent has a disposition to consider alternative milk choices. Two disposition mechanisms are tested in the model, a threshold-based approach, and a probability-based approach. Each agent makes a choice of milk selection based on a function for each alternative, made up of the perceived health and environmental characterises of each choice. These are computed at the initialisation of the simulation and then calculated at each time step. An agent’s milk choice function is modified by habit, social influence, and evaluation of previous choices. Agents ascribe different relative importance to each constituent part of the choice function (health factors and environmental factors). If the disposition requirement has been met, consumption of each milk type is split proportionately by the size of each choice function, modulated by the other influences. If not, agents keep their existing choice.

Agents (n=1,000) start with an existing choice based on the dominant position of whole milk versus skimmed varieties in 1974 (start year of the data). All agents are part of a social network. Each agent in the network can sense and be influenced by the choice function of each milk alternative for other agents in their network. Links between agents are unidirectional, and influence occurs as a function of interaction probability, with the degree of influence characterised by agent susceptibility. Social norms are globally perceived by agents and impact the weightings of the choice function
Setup and Go.

Monitors:

Two monitors track the number of turtles that have consume mostly whole-milk (incumbent initial choice) or skimmed/semi-skimmed milk (alternative initial choice).

Plots:

One plot shows the percentage of majority whole milk or skimmed/semi-skimmed milk consumers.

The second plots the average consumption of each milk type over time. This is the data that the calibration exercise uses to try and replicate observed consmption data.

Parameters:

12 paraemters that governs whether an agent will consider changing its milk type, and how much of each milk type an agent will consume. We refer viewers to the manuscript based on this model for further details.
The appearance of a crossover in the types of milk consumed and the shape of the curves over time.
(a reference to the model's URL on the web if it has one, as well as any other necessary credits, citations, and links)