This agent-based model is an extension of the original RAGE (Rangeland Grazing Ecology) model, which simulates the interactions between pastures, livestock, and household livelihoods in a common property grazing system. The initial increase in deviation can be interpreted as agents initially moving away from the recommended livestock numbers, possibly due to learning and adaptation processes. The subsequent decrease and stabilization may indicate a period of adjustment where agents refine their strategies based on accumulated knowledge and observations. This is the case with the RAGE (Rangeland Grazing Ecology) model, which simulates the interactions between pastures, livestock, and household livelihoods in a common property grazing system. This is the case with the RAGE (Rangeland Grazing Ecology) model, which simulates the interactions between pastures, livestock, and household livelihoods in a common property grazing system. The RAGE (Rangeland Grazing Ecology) model simulates the interactions between pastures, livestock, livestock, and household livelihoods in a common property grazing system. The model consists of two main sub-models: Vegetation and Household decision-making, which are linked through a yearly sequence of processes. The model parameters are categorized into extension model parameters and original model parameters .4717), sixteenth (1.4450), and eighteenth (0.9028) time steps. The trend analysis using the rolling Mann-Kendall test indicates significant decreasing trends in the initial phases (0-10, 11-21, 22-32, and 44-54 time steps), with periods of no significant trend (33-43 and 55-65 time steps) and a notable increasing trend in the later phase (66-76 time steps). The system shows strong oscillatory behavior with a dominant period of 49.00 time steps, indicating regular intervals of high and low destocking rates. For instance, there are peaks at time steps 25 and 27 with values around 17.5, followed by a series of decreases. The trend analysis using the rolling Mann-Kendall test indicates a significant decreasing trend from time steps 11 to 65, with varying degrees of slope and statistical significance. After time step 65, the trend stabilizes, showing no significant trend until the end of the simulation. The final value at time step 100 is approximately 14.7, indicating a overall reduction in the number of households following the E-RO strategy. Initially, the Gini coefficient starts at a value of -0.0000, indicating a perfectly equal distribution