the megaherbivore hunting pressure model ( mhpm ) is an agent - based model designed to test hypotheses related to the extinction of megaherbivores. the model allows users to manipulate various parameters to establish the socio - natural dynamics of the experiment matrix. external - mortality * * : the probability of an animal dying from external causes at each time step. stop - at - max - ticks * * : determines whether the experiment stops when the maximum number of ticks is reached. hunters are embedded with logic approximating dynamic optimal foraging theory, making foraging decisions based on environmental feedback. this minor fluctuation could be attributed to initial hunting successes and the relatively low movement costs at the start of the simulation. the simulation ends with the energy levels at around - 38229 units, suggesting a significant energy deficit for the forager bands. the cumulative number of male prey animals hunted and killed by forager bands starts at zero and exhibits a rapid increase in the initial time steps. this rapid rise continues until around the 475th time step, where the first change point is detected, indicating a shift in the trend. the cumulative number of births among the prey animal population starts at 0 and exhibits a gradual increase over time. following this peak, there is a significant change point at the 1850th time step, after which the cumulative number of births begins to decline. the number of male prey animals in the simulation begins at 125 and exhibits a rapid decline in the initial phase. the number of female prey animals in the simulation begins at 125 and exhibits a rapid decline in the initial phase. by the 600th time step, the population has significantly reduced, marking a critical change point in the trend. the oscillation indices suggest periodic behavior in the population dynamics, potentially linked to seasonal or other cyclic environmental changes. however, this stability is short - lived, and the energy levels continue to decline steadily afterward. these periodic fluctuations could be attributed to cyclical environmental conditions or behavioral patterns in the prey population. 70 units respectively, indicating brief periods of recovery or stabilization in the prey population's energy levels. the percentage of landscape patches that are vegetated starts at approximately 33 % and remains relatively stable throughout the simulation. the data shows several peaks and valleys, but these fluctuations are minimal, with values hovering around 32.