The agent-based model aims to simulate the adoption behaviors of milk choices. The agent-based model aims to simulate the adoption behaviors of milk consumption by the British public from 1974 to 2005, focusing on the shift from whole milk to skimmed and semi-skimmed milk. The model explores how perception, habits, and social influence affect individual decision-making processes regarding milk choices. The main outcome is the average weekly consumption of each milk type per person, using both theoretical grounding and empirical data for calibration against observed macro-level data. The rolling Mann-Kendall test confirms this increasing trend across all segments of the time steps, with significant positive slopes indicating a steady rise in whole milk choices. The dominant oscillation period and strong oscillation indices towards the end of the time steps suggest some variability in the adoption rates, potentially due to the complex interplay of social influence and individual The mean value health deviation is consistent with the observed trend of the observed change in the behavior of agents' choices based on initial perceptions and social characteristics. Throughout the simulation, the mean value health deviation shows a consistent upward trend, reflecting the dynamic and evolving nature of the agents' decision-making processes regarding milk consumption. The mean value environmental deviation is consistent with the observed trend of the observed change in behavior and social characteristics. The mean value environmental deviation starts at 0 and increases rapidly within the first few steps. This rapid increase indicates that initially, there is a significant discrepancy between the agents' environmental values and the environmental implications of their milk choices. By around the 5th step, the deviation reaches approximately 12, showing a steep initial adjustment period. This gradual increase indicates that the agents' environmental values are changing rapidly, indicating a gradual change in the environmental implications of their milk choices. The mean value