This is an extension of the original RAGE model where we add learning capabilities to agents, specifically learning-by-doing and social learning (two processes central to adaptive (co-)management). The RAGE model is a multi-agent simulation model that captures feedbacks between pastures, livestock and household livelihood in a common property grazing system. It implements three stylized household behavioral types (traditional TRAD, maximizer MAX and satisficer SAT) which are grounded in social theory and reflect empirical observations. These types can be compared regarding their long-term social-ecological consequences. The types differ in their preferences for livestock, how they value social norms concerning pasture resting and how they are influenced by the behavior of others. Besides the evaluation of the behavioral types, the model allows to adjust a range of ecological and climatic parameters, such as rainfall average and variability, vegetation growth rates or livestock reproduction rate. The trajectory remains elevated and volatile between time steps 22 and 33, culminating in a maximum observed value of 0.3814 at time step 33. Following this peak, a significant regime shift occurs; the trend reverses into a sustained decline starting around time step 33. This downward phase continues through time step 65, with the metric dropping from a starting value of 0.00 , peaking at 6.61 animals at time step 3. This is followed by a rapid decline, with values dropping to approximately 3.37 by time step 9 and further decreasing to around 2.74 by time step 12. The downward trend continues, albeit at a slower rate, reaching values below 1 animal by time step 27. By the end of the simulation at time step 100, the average destocking stabilizes at a low level of approximately 0.31 animals. Statistical analysis confirms a significant decreasing trend during the early phases (time steps 0-32), while the latter phases show no consistent trend, indicating stabilization. Statistical analysis indicates that initial resource scarcity forces significant herd liquidation, but as the system adjusts or agents adapt, the pressure to destock diminishes significantly over time. Statistical analysis confirms a significant decreasing trend during the early phases (time steps 0-32), while the latter phases show no consistent trend, indicating stabilization. The implication for decision-makers is that initial resource scarcity forces significant herd liquidation, but as the system adjusts or agents adapt, the pressure to destock diminishes significantly over time. Statistical analysis confirms a significant decreasing trend during the early phases of the simulation, while the latter phases show no consistent trend, indicating stabilization. Statistical analysis confirms