The agent-based model in question is an extension of the original RAGE (Rangeland Use and Adaptation) model, which simulates the interactions between pastures, livestock, and household livelihoods in a common property grazing system. The extension adds learning capabilities to agents, focusing on learning-by-doing and social learning, which are central to adaptive co-management. The model's context involves smallholder farmers making decisions about livestock placement on their privately-owned pastures based on observations of pasture states and neighbor behaviors. The primary goals are to evaluate the long-term social-ecological performance of different behavioral types and to study the diffusion of behavioral strategies in a heterogeneous population. The model consists of two main sub-models: Vegetation and Household decision-making, which are linked through a yearly sequence of processes. The parameters of the model are as follows:- **population-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale-scale The change points at timesteps 20, 55, and 100 mark significant shifts in the trend dynamics. The initial decrease in livestock numbers could imply a period of adjustment or stress in the system, potentially due to environmental factors or management practices. The subsequent recovery and gradual increase suggest an adaptation phase where households might be learning and adjusting their strategies to better manage their livestock. Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â ÂThe number of households following the E-RO strategy, which represents non-learning agents, exhibits a general decreasing trend over the observed time steps. Initially, the number of E-RO households starts at 20 and experiences slight fluctuations in the early stages. Initially, the destocking rate starts at zero and experiences a sharp increase, peaking significantly at timestep 3 with a value of 6.6144. Following this peak, there is a general decreasing trend with several smaller peaks and valleys. Key peaks occur at timesteps 9 (3.3733