The agent-based model in question is an extension of the original RAGE (Rangeland Use and Adaptation) model, which simulates the interactions between pastures, livestock, and household livelihoods in a common property grazing system. The extension adds learning capabilities to the agents, specifically learning-by-doing and social learning, to study adaptive management strategies. The model's context is rooted in understanding the long-term social-ecological consequences of different household behavioral types and their decision-making processes under various ecological and climatic conditions. The goal is to evaluate how different behavioral types and learning strategies impact the resilience and sustainability of pastoral systems. The model allows for the adjustment of a range of parameters to observe their effects on social, ecological, and economic outcomes. The model is used to compare the performance of different behavioral types and learning strategies in a heterogeneous population of agents. The model consists of two main sub-models: Vegetation and Household decision-making. Vegetation and Household decision-making, which are linked by a yearly sequence of processes. The model allows for the adjustment of a range of parameters to observe their effects on social, ecological, and economic outcomes. The model is used to compare the performance of different behavioral types and learning strategies, as well  trend stabilizes with no significant changes observed in the latter part of the simulation. Following this peak, there is a steep decline to 3.3333 by the eighth time step, indicating a partial recovery or adjustment in household strategies. The trend continues with a series of fluctuations, marked by smaller peaks and valleys, such as a peak of 3.3733 at the ninth time step and a subsequent drop to 2.4717 by the eleventh time step. These oscillations suggest periodic adjustments and responses to resource availability and household decision-making processes. After the initial volatile period, the rate of destocking gradually stabilizes, with minor fluctuations and a general decreasing trend. By the final time step, the average number of livestock destocked settles at 0.3111, indicating a more stable phase where households have likely adapted their strategies to better manage their livestock in response to the ecological conditions. The overall trend shows a significant early impact followed by a gradual stabilization, reflecting the adaptive processes within the pastoral system.The Gini coefficient is a measure of the distribution of healthy livestock across all households, as measured by the Gini coefficient. The Gini coefficient is a measure of the distribution of healthy livestock across all households. The Gini coefficient is a measure of the distribution of healthy livestock