This agent-based model is an extension of the original RAGE (Rangeland Grazing Ecology) model, which simulates the interactions between pastures, livestock, and household livelihoods in a common property grazing system. The extension focuses on incorporating learning capabilities into the agents, specifically learning-by-doing and social learning, which are central to adaptive (co-)management strategies. The model aims to evaluate the long-term social-ecological consequences of different household behavioral types and the impact of various ecological and climatic parameters on the system. The model is applied to smallholder farmers' decision-making, where each pasture is the private property of the household placed on it, and households make decisions based on observations of their pasture and neighbors. The model consists of two main sub-models: Vegetation and Household decision-making, which are linked through a yearly sequence of processes. This initial fluctuation suggests a period of adjustment within the grazing system as it responds to initial conditions and early interactions among pastures, livestock, and household decisions.                                                                                                                                   The mean destock total of households starts at 0 and exhibits a rapid increase in the early time steps, reaching approximately 80 by step 25. This initial surge indicates a significant and immediate response to the initial conditions of the simulation, where households might be adjusting their livestock numbers in response to initial ecological or economic pressures. Following this rapid increase, the rate of destocking slows down, showing a more gradual increase from step 25 to step 60, where the mean destock total reaches around 90. This period suggests a stabilization phase where households are making more measured adjustments to their livestock numbers. Beyond step 60, the mean destock total continues to rise but at an even slower rate, eventually plateauing near 97 by the end of the simulation at step 100. This final phase indicates a long-term equilibrium where the rate of destocking slows down, reflecting a steady-state in household decision-making processes.                                                                            