 steadily. By approximately 500 steps, the total energy of foragers drops to around -5000 units. This downward trend continues consistently, with the total energy reaching approximately -10000 units by 1000 steps. The decline persists, and by 1500 steps, the total energy is around -20000 units. As the steps progress further, the total energy continues to decrease, reaching about -30000 units by 1800 steps. The trend remains consistent, and by the final recorded step of 2000, the total energy of foragers is approximately -35000 units. Throughout the entire duration, the total energy of foragers follows a continuous and steady decline after the initial slight increase and peak. The total energy of foragers follows a continuous and steady decline after the initial slight increase and peak. The total energy of foragers follows a continuous and steady decline after the initial slight increase and peak. The total energy of foragers follows a continuous and steady decline after the initial slight increase and peak. The total energy of foragers follows a continuous and steady decline after the initial slight increase and peak.The cumulative number of male prey animals hunted and killed by forager bands exhibits a rapid increase initially, followed by a gradual leveling off. In the early stages, up to approximately 500 steps, the number of males The percentage of green patches in the Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model (MHPM) shows a clear and consistent declining trend over time. Initially, the percentage of green patches starts at a high value of approximately 12,000 units. This high value is maintained for a brief period, indicating a stable initial condition for the male population. This high value is maintained for a brief period, indicating a stable initial condition for the male population. Initially, the number of male animals starts at approximately 120. This number remains relatively stable for a brief period before beginning a steady decline. The percentage of green patches then remains stable again until around step 1000, where another sharp decline occurs, bringing the percentage down to about 24%. This decline is once again followed by a rapid recovery to around 32% by step 1200. After this recovery, the percentage of green patches stabilizes and remains relatively constant for the remainder of the simulation, with minor fluctuations around the 32% mark.