The Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model (MHPM) is an agent-based model designed to test hypotheses related to the extinction of megaherbivores. The model simulates a simplified grassland environment with human hunters and male and female ungulates. The goal is to understand how environmental conditions, human hunting behavior, and animal life history interact to influence extinction events or create equilibrium conditions. The model allows users to manipulate these parameters to test various hypotheses related to extinction events. The temporal units used in the model are 'ticks,' which can be scaled to any temporal granularity. The landscape consists of an abstract square universe that wraps at the edges, and the temporal units used in the model are 'ticks,' which can be scaled to any temporal granularity. The landscape consists of an abstract square universe that wraps at the edges, and the patches are unitless but can be imagined in km² based on approximations of daily distance traveled by megaherbivores. The model includes summary statistics that are shown as continuous line graphs, reflecting data from each tick. These statistics include the number of prey items taken per 10 ticks, the proportion of grazed to ungrazed grass, forager energy, and the number of animals in the environment  and remains constant until around 700 time steps. At this point, the number of births begins to increase gradually, reaching approximately 2 births by 900 time steps. Between 900 and 1000 time steps, there is a noticeable rise in the number of births, with values climbing to around 6 births. This increase continues more steeply until about 1200 time steps, where the number of births stabilizes around 8 births. After this stabilization, there is a slight increase again, peaking at around 10 births by 1500 time steps. Following this peak, the number of births drops slightly and stabilizing around 8 births for the remainder of the simulation. Beyond 1,000 time steps, the energy levels gradually approach zero, indicating a near-complete depletion of energy reserves among the female animals. The trend shows low variance across simulation runs initially, but deviations become more noticeable as time progresses, reflecting increasing variability in the system's dynamics. The trend shows low variance across simulation runs initially, but deviations become more noticeable as time progresses, reflecting increasing variability in the system's dynamics. The trend shows low variance across simulation runs initially, but deviations become more noticeable as time progresses, reflecting increasing variability in the system's dynamics. The trend shows low variance across simulation runs initially, but deviations become more noticeable as time progresses