 The MHPM is an agent-based model designed to test hypotheses related to the extinction of megaherbivores . It incorporates various factors such as environmental change, human hunting behavior, herd demography, movement, sexual dimorphism, and life history of animals . The model allows users to manipulate parameters to establish socio-natural dynamics and observe how these interactions influence extinction events .  The model's landscape is an abstract square universe that wraps at the edges, consisting of a 211x211 patch matrix . The temporal units are 'ticks,' which can be scaled to any temporal granularity . The number of human hunter-gatherer bands in the simulation remains constant throughout the entire duration . Initially, there are 20 bands, and this number does not change at any point during the simulation .  The cumulative number of postpartum female prey animals hunted and killed by forager bands in the Megaherbivore Hunting Pressure Model (MHPM) exhibits distinct trends over the simulation period . The mean value of the cumulative count is approximately 104.56, with a median of 119.06 . The data also shows some periodic oscillations with a dominant period of 63 ticks, particularly noticeable towards the latter part of the simulation .  Simulation of the Megaherbivore Hunting Pressure Model (MHPM) shows a clear overall decreasing trend in the number of male prey animals over time . The population eventually approaches zero, with the final value at the end of the simulation being zero female prey animals .  The total energy available in the population of male prey animals in the Megaherbivore Hunting Pressure Model (MHPM) exhibits a clear and consistent decreasing trend over the entire simulation period . By the end of the simulation, the energy levels approach zero, indicating a near-complete depletion of energy in the male prey population by the final tick .  The Megaherbivore Hunting Pressure Model (MHPM) exhibits a relatively stable trend over the simulation period, with minor fluctuations . The mean percentage of vegetated patches across the simulation is about 32.656%, with a median of 32.970%, indicating a slight skew in the data distribution . The rolling Mann-Kendall test reveals several periods of increasing and decreasing trends .