Context and Goals: Initialization of the model is based on the assumption that the majority of the population will adopt alternative milk choices by the end of the 20th century.The overall objective of the agent-based model is to reproduce adoption behaviours of milk consumption by the British public (1974-2005), by replicating individual preferences and decision factors. Specifically, the goal of the model is to explore the influence of perception, habits and social influence in an individual's decision-making process of milk choice. The model looks to replicate the substitution of whole milk for skimmed and semi-skimmed milk from the 1970s onwards. The main outcome reported here is the average weekly consumption of each milk type per person. The simulation uses both a theoretical grounding and empirical data to inform the ABM, with calibration performed against observed macro level data.Parameters: Initialization of the model is based on the assumption that the majority of the population will adopt alternative milk choices.In particular, the study conducts an experiment to compare the performance of two model variants in reproducing overserved milk consumption trends. These variants present different mechanisms for how agents become disposed to consider their choices, representing a threshold based, and a probability-based approach. Decision-making follows a basic structure of: agent perception starts at 0 and increases steadily to reach 32,000 by the final time step. This progression follows a strict linear trajectory, with the count rising by exactly 1,000 units at each subsequent time step throughout the 32-step duration. There are no detected peaks, valleys, or deviations from this pattern, indicating a highly regular accumulation of decision events over the simulated period. Additionally, there are no observed peaks, valleys, or deviations from this pattern, indicating a highly regular accumulation of decision events over the simulated period. Additionally, there are no observed peaks, valleys, or deviations from this pattern. Additionally, there are no observed peaks, values over time. The final high deviation suggests that, by the end of the simulation period, a significant gap exists between what agents value regarding health and the milk types they actually consume, highlighting the complexity of behavior change amidst competing decision factors. The final high deviation suggests that, by the end of the simulation period, a significant gap exists between what agents value regarding health and what they actually consume.The mean deviation between agents' held environmental values and the implied values by their milk choices starts at 0.0 at the beginning of the simulation. It increases rapidly over the first 13 time steps, reaching a peak value of 13.4756. This initial rise indicates a swift divergence between the environmental preferences held by the agents and the environmental characteristics of the milk choices they are making. Following this peak, the metric stabilizes, fluctuating within a narrow band between 13.41 and 13.45 for the remainder of the run. The simulation ends with the deviation at 13.4186. Statistical analysis confirms a significant increasing trend during the first 10 time steps, while subsequent windows show no significant trend, reflecting the stabilization phase. In the context of the milk consumption model, this pattern suggests that while agents may initially align their choices with their environmental values, this alignment is quickly lost as