An agent-based model (ABM) is a computational framework used to simulate the actions and interactions of autonomous agents, with the goal of assessing their effects on the system as a whole. In this case, the ABM is designed to replicate and understand the adoption behaviors of milk consumption by the British public from 1974 to 2005, focusing on the shift from whole milk to skimmed and semi-skimmed milk. The model aims to explore how perception, habits, and social influence affect an individual's decision-making process regarding milk choice. The main outcome of the ABM is the average weekly consumption of skimmed and semi-skimmed milk, with the average weekly consumption of skimmed and semi-skimmed milk in the first 5 steps. The average weekly consumption of skimmed and semi-skimmed milk in the first 5 steps, dropping to around 1000 units. This rapid decrease continues more gradually until about step 15, where the consumption stabilizes around 800 units. The simulation is informed by both theoretical grounding and empirical data, with calibration performed against observed macro-level data. The model compares two variants: one using a threshold-based approach and the other using a probability-based approach for how agents become disposed to consider their choices. Agents in  to increase very slowly, reaching a value slightly above 0.7. This indicates that the agents' choice function scores are approaching a steady state, with minimal changes in deviation. Overall, the trend shows an initial rapid increase in deviation, followed by a gradual increase, and eventually stabilizing with minimal changes. This pattern suggests that agents initially explore different choices widely but eventually settle into more consistent behavior patterns. This pattern suggests that agents initially explore different choices widely but eventually settle into more consistent behavior patterns. This pattern suggests that agents initially explore different choices widely but eventually settle into more consistent behavior patterns. This pattern suggests that agents initially explore different choices widely but eventually settle into more consistent behavior patterns. This pattern suggests that agents initially explore different choices widely but eventually settle into more consistent behavior patterns. This pattern suggests that agents initially explore different choices widely but eventually settle into more consistent behavior patterns. This pattern suggests that agents initially explore different choices widely but eventually settle into more consistent behavior patterns. This pattern suggests that agents initially explore different choices widely but eventually settle into more consistent behavior patterns. This pattern suggests that agents initially explore different choices widely but eventually settle into more consistent behavior patterns. This pattern suggests that agents initially explore different choices widely but eventually settle into more consistent behavior patterns. This pattern suggests that