From the repeated simulations of the agent-based model show a clear and consistent trend in the adoption behaviors of milk consumption by the British public from 1974 to 2005. The primary goal is to explore how perception, habits, and social influence affect an individual's decision-making process regarding milk choices, specifically the shift from whole milk to skimmed and semi-skimmed milk. This indicates that at the beginning of the simulation period, which corresponds to the year 1974, the majority of agents are not choosing skimmed or semi-skimmed milk. The main outcome is the average weekly consumption of each milk type per person. The model compares two variants: a threshold-based approach and a probability-based approach for how agents become disposed to consider their choices. Agents represent adult consumers who make milk choices based on perceived health and environmental characteristics, modified by habit, social influence, and evaluation of previous choices. The model includes 1,000 agents, each part of a social network where influence is a function of interaction probability and agent susceptibility. Social norms are globally perceived and impact the weightings of the choice function. The model monitors the number of agents consuming mostly whole milk or skimmed/semi-skimmed milk and plots the percentage of majority consumers and the average consumption  remains relatively constant, showing minimal change. Around step 5, there is a slight increase, indicating a gradual rise in the habit factor. This upward trend continues steadily, with the habit factor reaching around 1.1 by step 10. The growth rate of the habit factor accelerates after step 10, showing a more pronounced increase. By step 15, the habit factor is approximately 1.2, and it continues to rise more steeply. Around step 20, the habit factor reaches about 1.35, and the upward trend persists with increasing steepness. By step 25, the habit factor is roughly 1.5, and it continues to climb towards a value of approximately 1.6 by step 30. Throughout the entire period, the habit factor for skimmed and semi-skimmed milk consistently increases, reflecting a growing influence of habit on the choice of these milk types over time. This overall trend suggests that the habit factor for skimmed and semi-skimmed milk is increasing, indicating a growing influence of habit on the choice of these milk types over time. This overall trend suggests that the habit factor for skimmed and semi-skimmed milk is increasing, indicating a growing influence of habit on the choice of these milk types over time. The habit factor for