The Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model (MHPM) is an interactive, agent-based simulation designed to test hypotheses regarding megaherbivore extinction. It allows users to simulate a prehistoric landscape to observe how environmental factors and human predation interact to influence population survival. The model runs on a 211x211 patch matrix representing a toroidal landscape. The model is designed to simulate a prehistoric landscape. The model runs on a 211x211 patch matrix representing a toroidal landscape. The model runs on a 211x211 patch matrix representing a toroidal landscape.The model simulates a socio-ecological system containing human foragers and sexually dimorphic megaherbivore herds. It incorporates principles of optimal foraging theory, where hunters make decisions based on energy costs and food value. The environment is dynamic, featuring grass growth and seasonal changes. The model runs on a 211x211 patch matrix representing a toroidal landscape. The model runs on a 211x211 patch matrix representing a toroidal landscape. The model runs on a 211x211 patch matrix representing a toroidal landscape. The model runs on a 211x211 patch matrix representing a toroidal landscape. The model runs on a 211x211 patch matrix representing a toroidal landscape.Key Parameters and That population recovery depends on specific environmental and predation conditions that may not be consistently met in all scenarios. This is the case for all scenarios, except for those that do not meet the requirements of the environmental and predation conditions. This is the case for all scenarios, except those that do not meet the requirements of the environmental and predation conditions. This is the case for all scenarios, except for those that do not meet the requirements of the environmental and predation conditions. This is the case for all scenarios, except for those that do not meet the requirements of the environmental and predation conditions. This is the case for all scenarios, except for those that do not meet the requirements of the environmental and predation conditions. This is the case for all scenarios, except for those that do not meet the requirements of the environmental and predation conditions. The rate of increase in cumulative deaths slows, suggesting a stabilization of the death rate as the prey population adjusts to the predation pressure and environmental constraints. By 1000 time steps, the cumulative number of deaths approaches 200 and continues to rise more gradually, eventually plateauing near 250 deaths around 1500 time steps. This plateau indicates that the prey population has either been significantly reduced or has reached a state where the death rate balances with the birth