This agent-based model is an extension of the original RAGE (Rangeland Grazing Ecology) model, which simulates the interactions between pastures, livestock, and household livelihoods in a common property grazing system. The extension focuses on incorporating learning capabilities into the agents, specifically learning-by-doing and social learning, which are central to adaptive (co-)management strategies. The model aims to evaluate the long-term social-ecological consequences of different household behavioral types and the impact of various ecological and climatic parameters on the system. The model is applied to smallholder farmers' decision-making, where each pasture is the private property of the household placed on it, and households make decisions based on observations of their pasture and neighbors. The model consists of two main sub-models: Vegetation and Household decision-making, which are linked through a yearly sequence of processes. The model parameters are categorized into extension model parameters and original model parameters used by the extension model. The extension model introduces new behavioral types and allows for the study of strategy diffusion in a heterogeneous population of learning and non-learning agents. The model also incorporates a risk parameter to represent the change in the behavior of the livestock in the system. The model consists of two main sub-  0.090. This indicates a significant increase in inequality over time, suggesting that certain households accumulate a disproportionately higher number of healthy livestock compared to others as the simulation progresses. 0.090. This indicates a significant increase in inequality over time, suggesting that certain households accumulate a disproportionately higher number of healthy livestock compared to others as the simulation progresses. 0.090. This indicates a significant increase in inequality over time, suggesting that certain households accumulate a disproportionately higher number of healthy livestock compared to others as the simulation progresses. 0.090. This indicates a significant increase in inequality over time, suggesting that certain households accumulate a disproportionately higher number of healthy livestock compared to others as the simulation progresses. 0.090. This indicates that certain households accumulate a disproportionately higher number of healthy livestock compared to others as the simulation progresses. 0.090. This indicates that certain households accumulate a disproportionately higher number of healthy livestock compared to others as the simulation progresses. 0.090. This upward trend continues, and by 30 steps, the counts range from about 36 to 48 households. Beyond 30 steps, the rate of increase starts to plateau, and by 40 steps, the number of households engaging in social learning stabilizes, ranging from approximately 42 to 54 households. From this point onward, the number of households