This is an extension of the original RAGE model where we add learning capabilities to agents, specifically learning-by-doing and social learning (two processes central to adaptive (co-)management). The RAGE model is a multi-agent simulation model that captures feedbacks between pastures, livestock and household livelihood in a common property grazing system. It implements three stylized household behavioral types (traditional TRAD, maximizer MAX and satisficer SAT) which are grounded in social theory and reflect empirical observations. These types can be compared regarding their long-term social-ecological consequences. The types differ in their preferences for livestock, how they value social norms concerning pasture resting and how they are influenced by the behavior of others. Besides the evaluation of the behavioral types, the model allows to adjust a range of ecological and climatic parameters, such as rainfall average and variability, vegetation growth rates or livestock reproduction rate. These types can be compared regarding their long-term social-ecological consequences. The oscillation patterns and inflection points suggest that while individual agents may fluctuate, the aggregate behavior converges to a steady state characterized by a moderate risk profile, roughly half the value observed at the trajectory's maximum.The RAGE model implements three stylized household behavioral types:The average of healthy livestock across households without periods of stabilization or decline. The number of households engaging in social learning starts at zero and exhibits a consistent upward trend. The number of households engaging in social learning starts at zero and exhibits a consistent upward trend across the simulation duration. Initially, the metric remains at zero for approximately the first three time steps. Between time step 4 and time step 15, there is a rapid increase, with the average count rising from zero to approximately 30. From time step 15 to time step 40, the rate of growth slows, transitioning to a gradual ascent until reaching a plateau. After time step 60, the number of households stabilizes, with the average value hovering around 32. The statistical analysis indicates significant increasing trends throughout the majority of the simulation, confirming the steady adoption of social learning behaviors by the household agents. The overall trend suggests a gradual decline in the prevalence of non-learning agents over the remaining duration. The rolling Mann-Kendall test indicated a significant increase in the number of households following the E-RO strategy. The rolling Mann-Kendall test indicated a significant increase in the number of households following the E-RO