This is an extension of the original RAGE model where we add learning capabilities to agents, specifically learning-by-doing and social learning (two processes central to adaptive (co-)management). The RAGE model is a multi-agent simulation model that captures feedbacks between pastures, livestock and household livelihood in a common property grazing system. It implements three stylized household behavioral types (traditional TRAD, maximizer MAX and satisficer SAT) which are grounded in social theory and reflect empirical observations. These types can be compared regarding their long-term social-ecological consequences. The types differ in their preferences for livestock, how they value social norms concerning pasture resting and how they are influenced by the behavior of others. Besides the evaluation of the behavioral types, the model allows to adjust a range of ecological and climatic parameters, such as rainfall average and variability, vegetation growth rates or livestock reproduction rate. The model can be evaluated across a range of social, ecological and economic outcome variables, such as average herd size, pasture biomass condition or surviving number of households. In addition, the model can be used to evaluate the behavior of livestock, livestock, livestock, livestock, livestock, livestock, livestock, livestock, livestock, livestock, livestock and livestock reproduction rate. The model can The number of livestock destocked across all households increases over the 100 time steps, fluctuating from a mean value of 0.5 to 6.5 to a value below 2.5. Following this initial drop, the destocking rate continues to decrease, albeit more gradually, until it stabilizes between steps 35 and 40. Throughout the period from step 40 to 100, the average destocking remains relatively constant, fluctuating slightly around a mean value of approximately 0.8. This stabilization indicates that households have likely adjusted their livestock management strategies to better align with the resource availability, reducing the need for destocking. For decision makers, this suggests that initial resource constraints significantly impact livestock management, but over time, households adapt, leading to more sustainable practices. For decision makers, this suggests that households have likely adjusted livestock management strategies to better align with the resource availability, reducing the need for destocking. For decision makers, this suggests that initial resource constraints significantly impact livestock management, but over time, households adapt, leading to more sustainable practices.Gini coefficient for healthy livestockGini coefficient for healthy livestock starts at 0.000, indicating an equal distribution among all households at the initial step. Over the 100 steps, there is a steady increase in the Gini coefficient, reaching values