the rage model is a multi - agent simulation model that captures feedbacks between pastures, livestock and household livelihood in a common property grazing system. three new behavioural types are created ( which cannot be combined with the original ones ) : e - ro ( baseline behaviour ), e - lbd ( learning - by - doing ) and e - ro - sl1 ( social learning ). the r - parameter is catch - all for various factors that form an agent's disposition to act in a certain way, such as : uncertainty in the sensing ( partial observability of the resource system ), noise in the information received, or an inherent characteristic of the agent, for instance, their risk attitude. - number - households, range : 1. - satisficing - threshold, range : 0. - satisficing - trials, range : 0. - knowledge - radius, range : 0. - resting - threshold, range : 0. - intrinsic - preference, range : 0. - social - susceptibility, range : 0. - start - on - homepatch?. - sl2 - strategy - switch?. - risk - mode?. - risk - att - init. - number - e - ro - sl1. the average initial risk attitude of social learning agents remains constant across all 100 time steps of the simulation. 0074 from the beginning to the end of the simulation period. following this peak, a transition period occurs between steps 25 and 50 where the metric begins a statistically significant decline. the oscillation patterns and inflection points suggest that while individual agents may fluctuate, the aggregate behavior converges to a steady state characterized by a moderate risk profile, roughly half the value observed at the trajectory's maximum. during the final phase, from time step 60 to 100, the rate of increase slows, and the metric stabilizes, culminating in a final value of 121, 072 at time step 100. overall, the system transitions from an initial state of biomass reduction to a long - term state of significant biomass accumulation, exceeding the initial levels by the end of the simulation. a consistent downward trend is observed from the beginning until time step 37, where the value reaches its minimum at 41. after time step 37, the trend shifts to an increasing phase, with the value rising steadily until it stabilizes around 60 by time step 100. between time steps 0 and 30, the destocking levels drop from their peak to values generally below 1. after time step 30, the average destocking stabilizes into a low - level range, fluctuating between 0 and 1. between time steps 1 and 10, the gini coefficient shows an initial rapid increase with a slope of 0. from time step 15 to time step 40, the rate of growth slows, transitioning to a gradual ascent until reaching a plateau. after step 25, the rate of increase slows down slightly but continues steadily through the remaining time steps. multiple inflection points are observed around steps 45, 47, 53, and beyond, indicating slight changes in the rate of destocking, though the overall direction remains upward. notable fluctuations occurred early in the simulation, with significant peaks at time steps 6 and 4, and valleys at time steps 7 and 5. the rolling mann - kendall test indicated a significant increasing trend in the initial phase ( time steps 1 - 10 ), followed by a significant decreasing trend for the remaining duration.