the megafaunal hunting pressure model ( mhpm ) is an agent - based model designed to test hypotheses related to megaherbivore extinction. the model allows users to manipulate parameters to observe how different conditions interact to influence extinction or equilibrium outcomes. the number of human hunter - gatherer bands in the simulation remains constant throughout the entire duration. initially, there are 20 bands, and this number does not change over time, maintaining a steady value of 20. by the midpoint of the simulation, the total energy of foragers drops significantly to approximately - 15095. the trend is characterized by a continuous and steady decrease in energy, with no periods of recovery or increase. the dominant period of oscillation is noted to be around 63 units, but the overall trend remains a steady decrease in total energy of foragers. the cumulative number of postpartum females killed in the megafaunal hunting pressure model ( mhpm ) exhibits distinct trends over time. by around 1000 steps, the cumulative number of postpartum females killed stabilizes around 117, indicating a plateau in the trend. this decreasing trend is also statistically significant and occurs in two phases : from 1624 to 1855 time steps and from 1856 to 2087 time steps. key change points in the trend are observed at 725, 1325, 1850, 2050, and 2310 time steps, marking significant shifts in the birth rate dynamics. this phase is characterized by a significant upward trend, with the number of deaths increasing quickly. by around 2000 steps, the number of male animals is very close to zero, indicating a near - complete decline. by approximately 1000 steps, the number of female animals has significantly reduced, and the decline continues at a slower rate. the inflection points suggest changes in the rate of decline at various steps, notably around 357, 747, 825, and other points. overall, the simulation shows a clear trend of decreasing animal numbers over time, with minor periodic fluctuations. throughout this period, there are minor fluctuations and small peaks and valleys, but the overall trend remains a steady decline. the decline in total energy becomes more gradual after around 1, 000 time steps, with the energy values stabilizing at lower levels. the statistical analysis indicates significant decreasing trends in various segments of the simulation, with some periods showing minor increases. the dominant period of oscillation is around 63 time steps, suggesting regular intervals of minor fluctuations in the total energy levels.