The Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model (MHPM) is an agent-based model designed to test hypotheses related to megaherbivore extinction. It considers various factors such as environmental change, human hunting behavior, herd demography, movement, animal sexual dimorphism, and life history. The model allows users to manipulate parameters to observe how different conditions interact to influence extinction or equilibrium outcomes. The landscape is a simplified grassland environment with patches of grass, ungulates, and human hunters. The model uses 'ticks' as temporal units, which can be scaled to any temporal granularity. The landscape is an abstract square universe that wraps at the edges, existing on a 211x211 patch matrix with relative spatial scale. The model is interactive, allowing users to manipulate variables to test a wide range of hypotheses related to extinction in a socio-natural system. Hunters in the model follow dynamic optimal foraging theory, making decisions based on environmental feedback, such as the number of males killed, their energy status, prey food value, prey density, and the cost of hunting. Ungulate herds are sexually dimorphic, with distinct food values and processing costs for males and females. The model is interactive, allowing users to manipulate parameters to observe how different conditions interact The total number of females in the Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model (MHPM) starts at approximately 166.67 and exhibits a general decreasing trend over time. Initially, the number of females in the Megafaunal Hunting Pressure Model (MHPM) exhibits a general decreasing trend over time. The statistical analysis indicates that the energy levels are consistently decreasing across different segments of the simulation, with significant downward trends noted in the rolling Mann-Kendall test. The change points and inflection indices suggest shifts in the rate of decline at various steps, starting from 0 and rising steeply. This phase is characterized by a significant upward trend, with the number of deaths increasing quickly. By around 500 time steps, the rate of increase begins to slow down, indicating a transition phase where the steep rise starts to level off. This trend continues until approximately 1000 time steps, where the number of deaths reaches around 200. Following this, the rate of increase further diminishes, and the curve starts to plateau, suggesting a stabilization in the number of deaths. Between 1000 and 2000 time steps, the number of deaths fluctuates slightly but generally remains stable, hovering around 235 deaths. The data shows minor oscillations and small peaks and valleys, but the overall trend remains relatively flat, indicating