Context and Goals of the RAGE model are the following:This simulation extends the RAGE model to study how smallholder farmers manage grazing land when they can learn from their own experience or from neighbors. In this version, each farmer stays on their own plot of land. They decide how many animals to keep based on how the grass is doing and what others are doing. This sustained growth suggests that the learning mechanisms implemented, such as learning from own results or neighbors, successfully reduced grazing pressure over time. The final value represents a significant improvement in pasture health, indicating that the adaptive behaviors allowed the vegetation to regenerate beyond initial conditions. Throughout the simulation, while variability exists among runs, the aggregate directionality moves clearly from initial depletion to substantial accumulation of reserve biomass by the end of the 100 time steps.Parameters of the RAGE model are the following:The average available green biomass initiates at 45,000 units. During the initial phase, the metric experiences a decline, reaching a minimum of 42,057 units at time step 27. This reduction suggests that initial livestock densities exerted pressure on the pasture that outpaced vegetation growth. This reduction suggests that farmers are effectively adjusting their herd sizes in response to pasture conditions, aligning livestock numbers with available forage.Parameters of the R a systemic shift where the gap between successful and less successful household strategies widens. This is followed by another change point at time step 71, after which the distribution exhibits signs of cyclical behavior. This is followed by another change point at time step 72, after which the distribution exhibits signs of cyclical behavior. This is followed by another change point at time step 73, after which the distribution exhibits signs of cyclical behavior. This is followed by another change point at time step 77, after which the distribution exhibits signs of cyclical behavior. This is followed by another change point at time step 72, after which the distribution exhibits signs of cyclical behavior. This is followed by another change point at time step 73, after which the distribution exhibits signs of cyclical behavior. This is followed by another change point at time step 72, after which the distribution exhibits signs of cyclical behavior. This is followed by another change point at time step 73, after which the distribution exhibits signs of cyclical behavior. This outcome signifies that while the absolute level of inequality remains low, the introduction of diverse behavioral strategies leads to a gradual but persistent stratification of livestock wealth within the community. This is followed by a gradual but persistent stratification of livestock wealth within the community. This is followed by