This is an extension of the original RAGE model where we add learning capabilities to agents, specifically learning-by-doing and social learning (two processes central to adaptive (co-)management). The RAGE model is a multi-agent simulation model that captures feedbacks between pastures, livestock and household livelihood in a common property grazing system. It implements three stylized household behavioral types (traditional TRAD, maximizer MAX and satisficer SAT) which are grounded in social theory and reflect empirical observations. These types can be compared regarding their long-term social-ecological consequences. The types differ in their preferences for livestock, how they value social norms concerning pasture resting and how they are influenced by the behavior of others. Besides the evaluation of the behavioral types, the model allows to adjust a range of ecological and climatic parameters, such as rainfall average and variability, vegetation growth rates or livestock reproduction rate. The model can be evaluated across a range of social, ecological and economic outcome variables, such as average herd size, pasture biomass condition or surviving number of households. In addition, the model can be compared to the previous model. The model can be compared to the previous model. The model can be evaluated across a range of where the rate of change in adoption shifts. Where the rate of change in adoption shifts. By the conclusion of the simulation, slightly more than half of the total household population is engaged in social learning, demonstrating a clear progression from no engagement to a stabilized state of widespread adoption within the heterogeneous agent population. In the context of the RAGE extension model, the rate of change in adoption shifts from 0.00 to 0.00. The rate of change in adoption shifts from 0.00 to 0.00. In the context of the RAGE extension model, the rate of change in adoption shifts from 0.00 to 0.00. The rate of increase is most significant in the early phase, with a slope of 4.96 observed between timesteps 0 and 10, indicating rapid initial herd adjustments. A change point at timestep 25 marks a reduction in this rate, with the slope decreasing to 1.47 in the subsequent decade. Further stabilization occurs around timestep 60, where the slope levels off to approximately 0.31 and maintains this pace until the end of the simulation. Throughout the